LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
BUSINESS PACKAGE INSURANCE POLICY
PREAMBLE
WHEREAS the Insured described in the Schedule hereto (hereinafter called the “Insured”) by a
proposal and declaration which shall be the basis of this contract and is deemed to be incorporated
herein has applied to Liberty General Insurance Company Limited (hereinafter called the “Company”)
for the insurance hereinafter contained and has paid premium as consideration for such insurance during
the period stated in the Schedule or during any further period for which the Company may accept
payment for the renewal or extension of this Policy:
OPERATIVE CLAUSE
The Company hereby agrees subject to the terms and conditions contained herein or endorsed or
otherwise expressed hereon, to indemnify the Insured to the extent and in the manner specified herein,
against any loss or damage to the Property insured due to operation of any of the insured perils during
the Policy Period.
Note: The term policy when appearing within a Coverage Section / Extension wording shall be
interpreted as referring to the specific Insurance afforded by that Coverage Section / Extension.
COVERAGE SECTIONS:
S. No SECTION COVERAGE
01 Section I Bharat Sookshma Udyam Suraksha– Material Damage
02 Section II Fire Loss of Profit
03 Section III Burglary and Housebreaking
04 Section IV Money in transit and / or safe
05 Section V Electrical and Mechanical Appliances Breakdown
06 Section VI Electronic Equipment
07 Section VII Boiler and Pressure Plant
08 Section VIII Portable Equipment All Risk
09 Section IX Fixed Glass and Sanitary Fittings
10 Section X Accompanied Baggage
11 Section XI Signage
12 Section XII Infidelity / Dishonesty of Employees
13 Section XIII Legal Liability
14 Section XIV Employees‟ Compensation
15 Section XV Tenant‟s Legal Liability
16 Section XVI Inland Transit
Note: Section I is compulsory, remaining sections are optional. Cover provided will be for the
sections opted by the Insured and mentioned in the Policy schedule.
Page 1
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
DEFINITIONS (Applicable to All sections – Unless this Policy expressly defines a word or a phrase
under any Section as enumerated above, the following definitions shall be applicable and shall prevail
over all the Sections)
1. “Property” means assets, machinery, equipment, furniture, fixtures and fittings, electrical
installations and stock and stock-in-trade in the Insured‟s premises described in the Schedule to this
Policy including items contained therein for which the Insured is accountable.
2. “Period of Insurance” means the period between the commencement date and the expiry date
shown in the Schedule, both days inclusive.
3. “Proposal” means any signed proposal by filling up the questionnaires and declarations, written
statements and any information in addition thereto supplied to the Company by the Insured or on
Insured‟s behalf.
4. “Insured Premises” means the place(s) declared for insurance and named in the Schedule attached
to the Policy.
5. “Policy” means the Policy Booklet, the Schedule, the Proposal and any applicable endorsements or
memoranda. The Policy contains the details of the extent of the cover available to the Insured, what
is excluded from the cover and the conditions, warranties based on which the Policy is issued.
6. “Schedule” means the latest schedule issued by the Company as part of the Policy. It provides
details of the Insured‟s Policy including full description of properties covered which are in force and
the period of cover against the properties described. Whenever, the Insured requests for a change in
the cover, the same will be communicated by way of an endorsement, subject to payment of
premium by the Insured as demanded by the Insurer for such change in cover.
7. “Sum Insured” means the Monetary Amounts shown against item/s insured.
8. "Burglary or Housebreaking” means theft following upon an actual forcible and violent entry of or
exit from the premises by the person or persons committing such theft.
9. "Theft” means the dishonest misappropriation of Insured‟s property with the intention of
permanently depriving the Insured of the property by the person or persons other than the Insured‟s
employees or their representatives acting on behalf of the Insured.
10. “Robbery” means the theft of contents at the insured premises using unforeseen, aggressive and
violent means against the Insured and / or their employees.
Page 2
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
11. “Hold-up” means forcible removal by actual or threatened violence against the Insured or
Employee(s) of the Insured.
12. “Excess/Deductible” means the amount stated in the Schedule, which shall be borne by the
Insured in respect of each and every Claim made under this Policy.
13. “Contents” means items declared for insurance and specified in the Schedule.
14. “Business” means the business of the Insured as stated in the Schedule.
15. “Claim” means a claim under an Operative Clause in respect of an insured event that has taken
place or is likely to take place.
16. “Employee” means any person with whom the Insured has entered into a contract of service.
17. “Business Hours” or “Office Hours” means the Insured‟s normal trading hours or whilst the
Insured or their authorized employees are on the premises for the purpose of the business.
18. “Money” means Cash, current coins, Bank and Currency Notes, Cheques, Postal Order, Current
postage stamps which are not part of a collection and luncheon Voucher.
19. “Intrinsic Value” means reinstatement value of insured property or item less due allowance for
betterment, wear and tear and/or depreciation
20. “Market Value” means replacement value of insured property or item as New at the time of
Damage or Loss less due allowance for betterment, wear and tear and/or depreciation.
21. “Property Damage” means actual physical damage to the Insured property
22. “Loss/Lost” means the damage.
23. "Limit of Indemnity or Liability" means the amount stated in the Schedule, which shall be the
Company‟s maximum liability under this Policy (regardless of the total number or amount of Claims
made) for any one Claim and in the aggregate for all Claims during the Policy Period.
24. "Plate Glass" means completely and securely fixed flat glass within the Insured Premises (including
Plate Glass of display / show windows of the Premises) and described in the Schedule excluding its
glazing and/or lettering and /or ornamentation and /or any surface treatment or surfacing unless
specifically described and declared for insurance.
25. "Frames" and "Framework" shall mean a structure the immediate purpose of which is the
enclosure or support of Plate Glass.
Page 3
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
26. “Accident” / "Accidental" means a circumstance that is sudden, unexpected and unintentional
damage not excluded under the Policy.
27. "Authorised Employee” means an Employee of the Insured who is specifically entrusted with
Money in Transit.
28. "In Transit” means:
• Any mode of transportation of Money for the payment of wages, salaries and other earnings or
for petty cash directly between a bank, the Insured Premises or a Point in Transit (if specified)
by the Insured or an Authorised Employee from the time Money is received at the bank, the
Insured Premises or a Point in Transit by the Insured or an Authorised Employee until delivered
to the bank, the Insured Premises or a Point in Transit by the Insured or an Authorised
Employee and whilst at the Insured Premises until disbursed provided that out of business
hours such Money shall be secured in a locked Safe or locked Strong Room. Cheques drawn by
the Insured to provide for such Money are covered In Transit from the Insured Premises to the
Bank only.
• Any mode of transportation of Money in the personal custody of the Insured or an Authorised
Employee directly between a bank and the Insured Premises or a Point in Transit (if specified)
from the time Money is received at the bank or the Insured Premises by the Insured or an
Authorised Employee until delivered to the bank or the Insured Premises or a Point in Transit
by the Insured or an Authorised Employee within 72 hours of the time of collection.
29. "Unused” means unoccupied for a consecutive period of 7 days.
30. “Point in Transit” means the place specified in the Schedule.
31. “Safe” means
• A strong cabinet within the Insured Premises designed for the safe and secure storage of
valuable items, and
• Access to which is restricted.
32. “Strong Room” means
• A room within the Insured Premises designed for the secure storage of Money, and
• Access to which is restricted.
33. “Employed” mean either any employee named in the Schedule of the Insured or all Employees of
the Insured occupying a position named in the Schedule.
34. “Fraud or Dishonesty” shall mean the act of stealing misappropriation embezzlement or
fraudulent conversion on the part of the Employed.
Page 4
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
35. “Direct Financial Loss” means the loss of moneys and / or stock at prime cost belonging to the
Insured proved to have been criminally misappropriated and disposed of by the Employed
excluding any consequential loss of any kind.
36. “Signage” means advertising displays, hoardings, Glow signs, neon signs, LED signs, LCD signs,
any digital signs, any sort of display intended to convey information and described in the schedule.
37. “Injury” means physical bodily injury including death resulting from such injury arising out of an
accident but does not include any mental sickness, disease, Occupational Disease, unless caused by
such physical bodily injury.
38. “Insured” means the person or organization specified in the Policy Schedule but does not include
their Contractors or Sub Contractors.
39. “Occupational Disease” means any occupational disease or illness including but not limited to the
diseases listed under Schedule III of the Employees‟ Compensation Act. 1923 contracted by an
Employee due to employment in the Business.
40. “Wages” means the remuneration payable to an Employee by the Insured for the employment in
the Business and includes any privilege or benefit which is capable of being estimated in money
other than a travelling allowance or the value of any travelling concession or a contribution paid by
the employer of an employee towards any pension or provident fund or a sum paid to an employee
to cover any special expenses entailed on him by the nature of his employment;
41. “Boiler” shall mean any fired closed vessel or a combined container piping system in which steam is
generated under pressure.
42. “Pressure Plant” shall mean any unfired closed container under steam gas or fluid pressure.
43. “Explosion” shall mean the sudden and violent rending or tearing apart of the permanent structure
of a Boiler or Pressure Plant or any part or parts thereof by force of internal steam gas or fluid
pressure causing bodily displacement of the said structure and accompanied by the forcible
ejectment of its contents.
44. “Collapse” shall mean the sudden and dangerous distortion of any part of Boiler or Pressure Plant
by bending or crushing caused by Steam Gas or Fluid Pressure whether attended by rupture or not.
It shall not mean any slowly developing deformation due to any cause.
45. “Goods in inland transit” shall mean the subject matter insured as enumerated under the Policy
Schedule and which are in the course of movement within India from one place to another and for
which the Insured has responsibility to arrange insurance.
Page 5
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
SECTION I – BHARAT SOOKSHMA UDYAM SURAKSHA
You chose this Bharat Sookshma Udyam Suraksha Section and applied to Us for insurance covers of
Your choice. You paid Us the premium and gave Us information about Yourself, Your Business and Your
Property. Based on Your confirmation that this information is true and correct, and in return of accepting
the Premium You have paid Us, We promise to provide You insurance as stated in this Policy Document
and the Policy Schedule attached to it.
Clause A. This Policy and the Insurance Contract
1. Your Policy: This Bharat Sookshma Udyam Suraksha Section is a contract between You and Us
as stated in the following:
i. This Policy document;
ii. The Policy Schedule attached to this Policy document;
iii. Any Endorsement attached to and forming part of this Policy document;
iv. Any Add-on to this Policy that You may have purchased from Us;
v. The proposal and all declarations made by You or on Your behalf;
2. To whom this Policy is issued and what it covers:
i. This Policy is issued to You and covers Your Insured Property relating to Your Business as
mentioned in the Policy Schedule, where the total value at risk across all insurable asset classes
at one location is not exceeding ₹ 5 Crore (Rupees Five Crore only) at the policy
Commencement Date.
Provided, if the value at risk for all Insurable Assets exceeds ₹ 5 Crore during the Policy
Period, this policy shall, on expiry, be replaced by the applicable policy.
ii. If more than one person is insured under this policy, each of You is a joint policyholder. Any
notice or letter We give to any of You will be considered as given to all of You. Any request,
statement, representation, claim or action of any one of You will bind all of You as if made by
all of You.
iii. If You have mortgaged, pledged or hypothecated any Insured Property with a Bank, the Policy
Schedule will show an ‘Agreed Bank Clause’ and the name of such Bank. The terms and
conditions of this arrangement will be added to the Policy as an additional Clause.
3. The Policy Schedule: The Policy Schedule is an important document about Your insurance cover. It
shows:
i. Your personal details,
Page 6
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
ii. the Policy Period,
iii. the description of Your Insured Property,
iv. the total Sum Insured, the Sum Insured for each cover, or for each block, set or category of
Insured Property, and its limits and sub-limits for each and every location,
v. the insurance covers You have purchased,
vi. the premium You have paid for these insurance covers,
vii. add-on covers opted by You,
viii. other important and relevant aspects and information.
4. Special Meanings of Words: Words stated in the table below have a special meaning throughout
Section I and the Policy Schedule.
Word/s Specific meaning
Agreed Value An amount agreed between You and Us at the Policy
Commencement Date for items the value of which cannot be
ascertained.
Bank A bank or any financial institution
Page 7
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
Building
Any building or structure in Your Premises, where You carry on
Your Business.
It includes:
a. Basement (if any), all fixtures and fittings permanently attached to
the floor, walls or roof like electrical wiring, antennas etc.
b. The following ‘additional structures’ located on Your Premises
and used for Your Business, that are shown in the Policy Schedule:
i. garage, out-houses, security sheds, towers, verandah or
porch, tanks, compound walls, retaining walls, fences,
gates and internal roads,
ii. lifts, hoists,
iii. solar panels, wind turbines and air conditioning systems,
central heating systems, security systems and cameras,
electrical installations, fire alarm, fire sprinkler systems,
power lines, power installations,
iv. water, gas and sewage pipeline within Your
Word/s Specific meaning
premises or
v. any other structure shown in the Policy Schedule.
Business
Your commercial enterprise, trade or profession as shown in the
Policy Schedule.
Commencement Date
It is the date and time from which the insurance cover under this
Policy begins. It is shown in the Policy Schedule.
Contents
Those articles or things in Your Premises that are not permanently
attached or fixed to the structure of Your Premises.
Endorsement A written amendment to the Policy that We make (additions,
deletions, modifications, exclusions, or conditions of an insurance
policy) which may change the terms or scope of
the original policy.
Page 8
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
Excess It is the amount that You must bear in each and every claim
before We become liable to pay.
Insurable Assets All Buildings, Plant and Machinery, Furniture, Fixtures and Fittings,
Stocks and other Contents which, for the purposes of Your Business
on any one location, You own, or hold as tenant or occupant, or hold
in trust or on commission, or are legally responsible for as part of
Your trade, even if You
have not taken insurance cover for any of them.
Insured Property The Building, Plant and Machinery, Furniture, Fixture and Fittings,
Stocks and any other Contents that are declared and insured by You
under this Section, and are located in Your Premises unless
specifically stated in this Policy. The Insured Property is shown in
the Policy Schedule.
Kutcha Construction Building(s) having walls and/or roofs of wooden
planks/thatched leaves and/or grass/hay of any
kind/bamboo/plastic cloth/asphalt/canvas/tarpaulin and the like.
Market Value Market Value means new Replacement/Reinstatement
Value minus depreciation reckoned as on the date of loss.
Money Cash, bank and currency notes, credit cards, telephone cards,
cheques, crossed banker’s drafts, postal orders, luncheon vouchers,
current postage stamps, trading
stamps, National Savings Certificates, Premium Bonds,
Word/s Specific meaning
credit sales vouchers or receipts, unexpired units in franking
machines, gift tokens and consumer redemption vouchers
belonging to You or for which You are responsible.
Partial Loss Any loss other than Total Loss.
Page 9
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
Plant and Machinery All equipment, machinery, pipes and cables, spares, computers,
servers and preloaded licensed system software located within any
structure or in the open area of Your Premises.
It includes
i. machines under repair,
ii. machines taken on hire or lease, or through any system of
purchase of goods,
iii. foundation, bedding or setting of the machines, or
iv. accessories of machines.
Policy Period Policy period means the period commencing from the
effective date and time as shown in the Policy Schedule and
terminating at Midnight on the expiry date as shown in the Policy
Schedule or on the termination of or the cancellation of Insurance as
provided for in Clause G (III) of this Section,
whichever is earlier.
Policy Schedule The document accompanying and forming part of the Policy
that gives Your details and of Your insurance cover, as described in
Clause A (3) of this Section.
Premium
The premium is the amount You pay Us for this insurance. The Policy
Schedule shows the amount of premium for the Policy Period and all
other taxes and levies.
Pucca Construction
Construction other than Kutcha Construction.
Reinstatement/Replacement Reinstatement/Replacement is defined as:
i. the reconstruction of buildings or replacement of other
property lost or destroyed.
ii. the repair or partial replacement of property
damaged.
In either case, to a condition substantially the same as but
Word/s Specific meaning
Page 10
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
not superior, better or more extensive than its condition if it
were new on the date it is damaged or destroyed.
Reinstatement/Replacement This is the amount at which the Insured Property can be reinstated or
Value replaced by a similar property, without deducting depreciation, and
to the extent required to bring that Property to a condition
substantially the same as, but not superior, better or more extensive
than its condition if it were new on the date it is damaged or
destroyed.
Stocks Any stock of goods or merchandise. It
may be:
i. Finished goods, semi-finished goods, stock in
process, stock invoiced and ready for dispatch,
ii. Raw materials, packing materials, or
iii. Stock held in trust for which You are responsible.
iv. Stock in Open in the Insured Premises
Sum Insured The amount shown as Sum Insured in the Policy Schedule. It
represents Our maximum liability for each cover or part of
cover and for each loss, as applicable.
Total Loss A situation where the Insured Property or item is completely
destroyed, lost, or damaged beyond retrieval or repair, or the cost of
repairing it is more than the Sum Insured of that
item or in total.
We, Us, Our, Insurer The … … … Insurance Company that has provided
Insurance Cover under this Policy; of the Company.
You, Your, Insured The Insured Person/s, Company or other entity shown in the
Policy Schedule who has/have purchased Insurance Cover under
this Policy; of such Insured Person/s
Your Premises The premises in which You carry on Business that is occupied by
You for the purposes of Business declared to
Us and is reflected in the Policy Schedule.
Clause B. Insured Events
We give insurance cover for physical loss or damage, or destruction caused to Insured Property
by the following unforeseen events occurring during the Policy Period.
Page 11
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
The events covered are given in Column A and those not covered in respect of these events are given in
Column B.
Column A Column B
We cover physical loss or damage, or We do not cover loss or damage, or
destruction caused to the Insured destruction caused to the Insured Property
Property by by
caused by
1. Fire, including due to its own
fermentation, or natural heating or a. its undergoing any heating or drying
spontaneous combustion. process, or
b. burning of Insured Property by order
of any Public Authority.
2. Explosion or Implosion a. caused to boilers, economizers or other
vessels, machinery or apparatus in which
steam is generated, or their contents,
resulting from their own explosion or
implosion, or
b. caused by centrifugal forces.
-
3. Lightning
4. Earthquake, volcanic eruption, or -
other convulsions of nature
5. Storm, Cyclone, Typhoon, Tempest, -
Hurricane, Tornado, Tsunami, Flood
and Inundation,
caused by
6. Subsidence of the land on which Your
Premises stand, Landslide, Rockslide a. normal cracking, settlement or
bedding down of new structures,
b. the settlement or movement of
made up ground,
c. coastal or river erosion,
d. d. defective design or workmanship or
use of defective materials, or
e. demolition, construction, structural
alterations or repair of any property,
or groundworks or excavations.
7. Bush fire, Forest fire, Jungle fire, -
Page 12
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
8. Impact damage of any kind, i.e., a. caused by pressure waves caused
damage caused by impact of, or by aircraft or other aerial or space
Page 13
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
collision caused by any external devices travelling at sonic or supersonic
physical object (e.g. vehicle, animal, speeds.
falling trees, aircraft, wall etc.) b. caused by vehicle, animal or aircraft
belonging to or owned by Insured or their
employee while
acting in the course of employment.
9. Missile testing operations -
Riot, Strikes, Malicious Damages caused by
10.
a. total or partial cessation of work or the
retardation or interruption or cessation of
any process or operations or omissions of
any kind,
b. temporary or permanent
dispossession, confiscation,
commandeering, requisition or
destruction by order of the government or
any lawful authority, or
c. temporary or permanent
dispossession of any Building by
unlawful occupation by any person.
11. Acts of terrorism Exclusions as per Terrorism Clause
(Coverage as per Terrorism attached.
Clause attached.)
12. Bursting or overflowing of water -
tanks, apparatus and pipes,
13. Leakage from automatic sprinkler a. repairs or alterations in the Building in
installations. which Your Business is located,
b. repairs, removal or extension of any
sprinkler installation, or
c. defects in the construction known to
You.
14. Theft within 7 (seven) days from the if it is
occurrence of and proximately caused a. of any article or thing outside Your
by any of the Premises, or
above Insured Events b. of any article or thing attached from
Page 14
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
the outside of the outer walls or the roof
of Your Premises, unless
securely mounted.
Clause C. The Standard Cover
1. What We cover:
We cover physical loss or damage, or destruction of any Insured Property because of any Insured Event
stated in Clause B of this Section and subject to the exclusions stated in Clause D of this Section subject
to all terms and conditions of this Section. We also give In- built Covers without charging additional
premium which are stated in Clause C (4) of this Section.
2. Basis of Sum Insured:
i. For Building, Plant and Machinery, Furniture, Fixture and Fittings and any other contents:
Reinstatement Value
ii. For Stocks:
a. For raw material: landed cost at Your Premises.
b. For stock in process: input cost of the stock at the time of loss.
c. For finished stock: the manufacturing cost of the finished stock or the Contract Price of
goods sold but not delivered and more precisely defined below.
Contract Price is in respect only of goods sold but not delivered, for which You are responsible
and with regard to which under the conditions of the sale, the sale contract is cancelled by reason
of any Damage insured under this Section either wholly or to the extent of the Damage. The
Company’s liability shall be based on the Contract Price.
iii. Bullion or unset precious stones, any curios or works of art or obsolete machinery and the like are
to be covered on Agreed Value basis subject to a valuation certificate being submitted and found
acceptable by Us.
3. Restoration of Sum Insured:
Except as stated in Clause G (III) (3) (e) of this Section, the insurance cover will, at all times, be
maintained during the Policy Period to the full extent of the respective Sums Insured. This means
that after We have paid for any loss, the policy shall be restored to the full original amount of Sum
Insured. You must pay to Us proportionate premium for the unexpired Policy Period from the date
of loss. We can also deduct this premium from the net claim that We must pay You.
Notwithstanding the above, the Sum Insured shall stand reduced by the amount of loss in case
Page 15
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
You, immediately on occurrence of loss, exercise Your option not to restore the Sum Insured.
4. In-Built Covers:
If We agree to pay Your claim for loss or damage to the Insured Property, We will also pay for
the following loss or damage and expenses.
4.1. Additions, alterations or extensions:
We cover Buildings, Plant, Machinery, and Furniture and Fittings, or other Contents which You
will erect, or acquire, or for which You will become responsible, after the Commencement Date,
in the Insured Premises. We will pay for that item as follows:
i. You inform Us of the item so erected or acquired within 7 (seven) days of it becoming
known to You,
ii. such item of Property is not otherwise insured,
iii. maximum limit under this cover is 15% (excluding stocks),
iv. subject to Underinsurance provisions of Clause F of this Section.
4.2. Stocks at many locations on floater basis:
We cover physical loss or damage to movable property in more than one location as follows:
i. You have declared all locations, and these are shown in the Policy Schedule.
ii. You have declared stocks as a single value reflecting the aggregate Sum Insured.
iii. You have a good internal audit accounting procedure under which the total amount at
risk and the locations can be established at any particular time.
iv. You must inform Us of any change in the address of any location occurring after the
Commencement Date.
Page 16
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
4.3. Temporary removal of stocks:
We cover stock temporarily removed to any other premises for the purposes of fabrication,
processing or finishing, or other similar purposes subject to the following conditions:
i. maximum cover will be 10% of the Sum Insured for Stock,
ii. such stock is not otherwise insured.
4.4. Cover for Specific Contents:
We cover the following, as applicable:
a. Money for an amount not exceeding ₹50,000 (Rupees Fifty Thousand) during the policy
period.
b. Deeds, manuscripts and business books, plans, drawings, securities, obligations or
documents of any kind, but only for the cost of the materials and clerical labour
expended in reproducing such records for an amount not exceeding ₹50,000 (Rupees
Fifty Thousand) during the policy period.
c. Computer programmes, information and data but only for the cost of the materials and
clerical labour expended in reproducing such records for an amount not exceeding₹5
Lakh ( Rupees Five Lakh) during the policy period.
d. Employees’, Directors’, visitors’ personal effects of every description (other than
motor vehicles) for an amount not exceeding ₹15,000 (Rupees Fifteen Thousand) per
person for a maximum of 20 (twenty) persons during the policy period.
4.5. Start-Up Expenses:
We cover start-up costs necessarily and reasonably incurred by the insured in respect of insured
risk consequent upon a loss or damage covered by this Section for an amount not exceeding ₹ 1
Lakh (Rupees One Lakh) during the policy period.
4.6. Professional fees:
We will pay the expenses that You incur towards reasonable fees of Architects, Surveyors and
Consulting Engineers as follows:
i. The fees are paid for preparing plans, specification tenders and quantities, and services
in connection with the superintendence of the reinstatement of the Insured Building,
Machinery, Accessories or Equipment;
ii. The maximum We pay is 5 % of the claim amount;
Page 17
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
iii. We do not cover fees or costs for preparing any claim or estimate of loss or damage
by the Insured Perils.
4.7. Costs for removal of debris:
We will pay reasonable expenses You incur towards removal of debris of any Insured Property from
Your Premises, and dismantling, demolishing, shoring up or propping up of Insured Building or
Machinery. The maximum We pay is 2 % of the claim amount.
4.8. Costs compelled by Municipal Regulations:
We pay such additional cost of reconstruction or reinstatement of the Insured Property that is incurred
solely because You must comply with any regulations or bye-laws of any municipal or local authority,
or any provision of any State or Central Act, Rules or regulations. We cover these costs on the
following conditions:
i. You must commence the repairs, or reconstruction or reinstatement of the Insured
Property, within a reasonable time after the date of damage or destruction. You must
complete the repairs, reconstruction or reinstatement within reasonable time, in any
case not beyond 12 months from the date of damage or destruction, or within such time
as We may allow in writing.
ii. If Our Liability is reduced under any term or condition of this Section, Our liability
under this extension will also be proportionately reduced.
iii. All other terms and conditions of this Section will apply to this extension.
iv. These costs will not include
a. the costs incurred for complying with such regulations,
- for destruction or damage occurring before Commencement Date,
- for destruction or damage not insured under this Policy,
- under which You have received notice before the destruction or
damage occurred.
b. any additional cost required to repair or reconstruct the Insured Property to a
condition equal to its condition when new, had the need to comply with the
regulation not arisen.
c. the amount of any rate, tax, duty, development or other charge or assessment
arising out of capital appreciation which may be payable in respect of the
Insured Property or by the owner thereof by reason of compliance with any of
the aforesaid regulations or bye-laws.
v. the total amount recoverable under any item of the section shall not exceed the sum insured
Page 18
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
thereby
Page 19
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
Clause D. Exclusions, that is, what We do not cover
We do not cover losses or expenses, or any loss, damage to, or destruction of the Insured Property, directly
or indirectly as a result of or if caused by or arising from events, stated below:
1. i. Excess of ₹ 5,000 (Rupees Five Thousand) for each claim. This means that We will deduct ₹ 5000
(Rupees Five Thousand) for each and every loss suffered by You under the terms of this policy.
ii. For terrorism risk the Excess shall be as per the clause attached to this section.
2. Your deliberate, wilful or intentional act or omission, or of anyone on Your behalf, or with Your
connivance.
3. Loss, damage or destruction to any electrical/electronic machine, apparatus, fixture, or fitting by over-
running, excessive pressure, short circuiting, arcing, self-heating or leakage of electricity from
whatever cause (lightning included). This exclusion applies only to the particular machine so lost,
damaged or destroyed. However, any ensuing loss or damage to other insured property due to
operation of an insured peril is covered.
4. Loss, destruction or damage to the stocks in cold storage premises caused by change of temperature.
5. Loss, or damage by spoilage resulting from the retardation or interruption or cessation of any process
or operation caused by operation of any of the Insured Events.
6. Your Premises or any Insured Building remaining continuously unoccupied for a period of more than
30 days, unless You have obtained prior written approval from Us and such approval is recorded as an
endorsement on the Policy.
7. War, invasion, act of foreign enemy hostilities or war-like operations (whether war is declared or not),
civil war, mutiny, civil commotion amounting to a popular rising, military rising, rebellion, revolution,
insurrection or military or usurped power.
8. Ionising radiation or contamination by radioactivity from any nuclear fuel or from any nuclear waste
from combustion of nuclear fuel, or the radioactive, toxic, explosive or other hazardous properties
of any explosive nuclear assembly or nuclear component that is part of it.
9. Pollution or contamination, unless
i. the pollution or contamination itself has resulted from an Insured Event, in which case
only physical damage to the Insured Property is covered, or
ii. an Insured Event itself results from pollution or contamination.
Page 20
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
10. Loss, destruction or damage to bullion or unset precious stones, any curios or works of art unless
such amount is declared separately and recorded in the Policy Schedule.
11. Loss of any Insured Property which is missing or has been mislaid, or its disappearance cannot be
linked to any single identifiable Insured Event.
12. Loss or damage to any Insured Property removed from Your Premises to any other place, except
i. machinery and equipment temporarily removed for repairs, cleaning,
renovation or other similar purposes for a period not exceeding 60 days,
ii. Stock covered under Clause (C) (4.3) of this Section -.
13. Any reduction in market value of any Insured Property after its repair or reinstatement.
14. Loss or damage to any Insured Property or any claim which is covered by a marine policy in force at
the time of loss or damage, except in excess of the limits of that policy.
15. Any consequential or indirect loss or damage of any description, i.e. losses or extra costs (financial
or non-financial) that follow or are a consequence of an Insured Event, like, loss by delay, loss of
income or wages or earnings, or of market, or of time, medical expenses, or any costs not covered
by this Policy.
16. Costs, fees or expenses for preparing any claim.
Clause E. What We Pay
If any Insured Property is physically damaged, lost or destroyed, We will pay You as follows:
1. Partial Loss:
i. If any Insured Property is a Partial Loss, We will reimburse to You the cost of repairs
to the extent required to bring that Property to a condition substantially the same as,
but not superior, better or more extensive than its condition if it were new on the date
it was damaged.
ii. If any Insured Stock is a Partial Loss We will pay You to the extent of the loss of such
Partial Loss.
2. If Building or Plant and Machinery or Furniture, Fixture, Fittings is a Total Loss, We will pay You
for
i. The Reinstatement/Replacement Value of the Building or Plant and Machinery or
Furniture, Fixture, Fittings.
ii. Reconstruction of the new building on the same site, or another site. If You reconstruct
the new Building or Reinstate the Plant and Machinery or Furniture, Fixture, Fittings
Page 21
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
on another site We will not pay You more than what We would pay to reconstruct or
replace on the same site.
iii. Reinstatement using standard material readily available and in common use for
similar type of Building.
3. If the Stock is a Total Loss, We will pay You as follows:
i. landed cost at Your Premises for Stock of raw materials,
ii. total manufacturing cost for Stock of finished goods,
iii. the input value of Stock in process at the time of loss,
iv. The Contract Price in case of goods sold but not dispatched, and lying within Your
premises for which You are responsible under the terms of a contract of sale. We will
pay Your claim on the basis of the Contract Price, if the sale is cancelled wholly or to
the extent of loss or damage caused by an Insured Event covered by this Policy. For the
purposes of this para, the value of all goods to which this basis of settlement could
apply in the event of loss or damage will also be ascertained on the same basis.
4. You must commence the repairs or Reinstatement within a reasonable time after the date of the damage
or destruction. You must complete the repairs or Reinstatement within reasonable time, in any case not
beyond 12 months from the date of damage of destruction, or within such time as We may allow in
writing.
5. If You fail to start the work of the repairs or Reinstatement within reasonable time, or to complete the
repairs or Reinstatement within time We will pay Your claim based on the Market Value of the
Building, Plant and Machinery, Furniture, Fixture, Fittings as the case maybe.
6. We will pay the Market Value of the Building, Plant and Machinery, Furniture, Fixture and Fittings at
the time it is a Total Loss, but not more than the relevant Sum Insured,
i. If the Building cannot be Reinstated or rebuilt due to Municipal, State or Central law,
rules, regulations or bye-laws,
ii. If You do not wish to Reinstate the Building, Plant and Machinery, Furniture, Fixture,
Fittings.
7. We will also pay other amounts mentioned in Clause C (4) of this Section
NOTE: In any claim, We will not pay more than the relevant Sum Insured, subject to Underinsurance as stated
in Clause F of this Section.
Clause F. Underinsurance
1. The Sum Insured for each item of Insured Property must be sufficient to pay for
Reinstatement/Replacement of that Property on the date of loss. If the Reinstatement/Replacement
Page 22
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
Value of the Insured Property, in totality, including additions, alterations, erections and new
acquisitions, is more than the Sum Insured, except to the
extent waived in Clause F (3) of this Section, it amounts to underinsurance, and will reduce
proportionate to the difference from the amount that We will pay for Your claim.
2. Every item of Insured Property is subject to this condition separately.
3. Under this Bharat Sookshma Udyam Suraksha Section, We will waive underinsurance upto 15%.
4. If at the time of damage, the Sum Insured applicable to the relevant Buildings, Plant and Machinery,
Furniture, Fixture, Fittings, Stocks and other Contents is less than 85% of the value of Insurable Assets
You will be responsible for the difference and You will bear a proportionate share of the loss.
5. Underinsurance will not apply to Cover for Specific Contents.
Note: The cost for Reinstatement of additions made to Insured Property during the Policy Period will be
reckoned from the date of addition.
Clause G. Conditions
I) Your Obligations
1. Make true and full disclosure in the proposal and related documents
i. You have a duty of disclosure to tell Us everything You know, or could reasonably be expected to
know, that is relevant to Us for deciding whether to give You insurance cover and on what terms.
You owe this duty to disclose such relevant material information even if We have not specifically
asked for it. This duty extends to any information or declarations given by anyone else on Your
behalf.
ii. We have agreed to give You insurance cover entirely on the basis of the information You, or anyone
on Your behalf, have given Us in the proposal, statements and other declarations and documents (in
writing or electronic) about Yourself, the Building, Plant and Machinery, Furniture, Fixture, Fittings,
Stocks and other Contents. The correct and complete information You give is the basis of Our
contract with You. Our promise to pay is conditional upon the truth of these statements and on the
assumption that You, or anyone on Your behalf, has not withheld any material information about
Yourself, the Building, Plant and Machinery, Furniture, Fixture, Fittings, Stocks and other Contents.
2. Make true statements and full disclosure in the claim and related documents
You must also give true and full information in Your claim and submit true documents. If You give
any false information or document in the claim, or if You withhold any information or document
(written or electronic), We have a right to refuse Your claim. We may also cancel Your policy.
Page 23
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
3. Obligation to take care: You must:
i. ensure that unauthorised persons do not occupy Your Premises.
ii. whenever Your Premises or any Building in Your Premises is unoccupied, You must
ensure that all security procedures on Your Premises are in force.
4. Inform change in circumstances:
You must inform Us immediately if:
i. You change the nature of Your Business or any processes,
ii. You let out Your Premises or any part, or Your Premises will no longer be solely occupied
by You,
iii. You change the use of Your Premises or any Building, or
iv. Your Premises or any Building remains unoccupied for more than 30 days.
5. Allow inspection and investigation of claim
You must allow and give full cooperation to the survey/investigation of Your claim by Us. You must
allow Us, and any surveyor, officer or other representative that We authorise, to enter Your Premises,
inspect it, take photographs and where required permit the scientific testing and investigation of any
insured article affected by an insured peril. You must answer all questions asked regarding Your claim
truthfully and completely and submit all relevant documents that We will require.
6. Follow claim procedure
When You suffer any loss or damage to any Insured Property, and wish to make a claim, You must
follow all steps stated in this Policy about immediate reporting to Us and to the appropriate Legal
Authorities as per Clause G (IV) of this Section.
II) Renewal of Policy
1. End of Policy: This Policy will expire at the end of the Policy Period.
2. Application for renewal: If You wish to renew the Policy, You must apply for renewal before the end
of the Policy Period and pay the required premium amount.
3. Renewal is not Automatic: We may seek relevant information from You for the purpose of renewal.
We can reject Your renewal only on grounds of mis-representation, non- disclosure of material facts,
fraud or non-co-operation on Your part.
III) Cancellation and termination of Policy
Page 24
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
1. Cancellation by You at any time
a. You can cancel this Policy at any time by giving Us notice in writing. The Policy will terminate
when We receive Your notice.
b. If You cancel the Policy, We will refund premium as follows:
For a period not
15 days 90% of the Annual rate
exceeding
-do- 1 month 85% of the Annual rate
-do- 2 months 70% of the Annual rate
-do- 3 months 60% of the Annual rate
-do- 4 months 50% of the Annual rate
-do- 5 months 40% of the Annual rate
-do- 6 months 30% of the Annual rate
-do- 7 months 25% of the Annual rate
-do- 8 months 20% of the Annual rate
-do- 9 months 15% of the Annual rate
For a period
9 months No Refund
exceeding
2. Cancellation by Us
We will not cancel the Policy during the policy period except on the grounds of mis- representation,
non-disclosure of material facts, fraud or non-co-operation on Your part.
3. Automatic termination of the Policy:
This Policy will automatically end in the following cases:
a. Destruction of any Insured Building: This Policy will automatically end 7 days after any Insured
Building collapses or is displaced or destroyed by reason other than any Insured Event. If a
separable part of any Insured Building falls down or is destroyed by reason other than any
Insured Event, the cover will end for such part or additional structure.
b. You can apply within 7 (seven) days of such fall or destruction for continuing insurance cover.
We may agree, but will not be bound, to continue the cover on revised rates, terms and conditions.
c. Change of use or ownership of Insured Property: The Policy will end in regard to the Insured
Property affected, unless You have obtained Our prior consent in writing as an Endorsement on
Page 25
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
the Policy,
i. if You change the trade or manufacture, or the nature of Your occupation, or You change
other circumstances relating to the Building or a building containing any Insured Property
in such a way as to increase the risk of loss or damage by Insured Events;
ii. if Your interest in any Insured Property passes to another except by will or operation of
law.
d. Sale of Insured Property: This Policy will end when You sell, surrender or release Your interest
in any Insured Property or its part.
e. Exhaustion of Sum Insured: If any Insured Property is lost, destroyed or stolen, or is a Total
Loss, and We pay You the full Sum Insured for such item, the insurance cover for that item will
automatically end. If We pay the total Sum Insured for any claim, this Policy will end.
f. Effect of death: If You are an individual, in the event of Your unfortunate death, the Insurance
Covers that You have purchased will continue for the benefit of Your legal representative/s during
the Policy Period subject to all the terms and conditions of this Section.
g. Policy not invalidated: The Policy is not invalidated:
i. by transfer of Your interest in the Policy by operation of law, if that occurs during the
Policy Period. We can continue this policy on same or modified terms in favour of Your
legal representatives if they apply for this purpose within 30 days of such transfer.
ii. by any act, omission, or alteration unknown to You, or beyond Your control, that increases
the risk of loss or damage, if You give notice to Us immediately when You become aware
of the act, omission or alteration, and pay additional premium if required; or
iii. if Your employees or workmen carry out repairs, maintenance work or minor alterations in
the Insured Property.
(IV) Claims Procedure
If You suffer a loss because of an Insured Event, You must make a claim for Your financial loss at Your
cost.
The procedure for making a claim is given below. These include things that You must do, and that You
must not do. It is important to comply with these to ensure that it does not prejudice Your claim in any
manner.
1. Immediate notice to Us
a. As soon as any loss or physical damage occurs to any Insured Property due to an Insured Event,
You must immediately give notice to Us of the loss or damage. This is necessary so that We can
survey/investigate the loss or damage.
Page 26
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
b. You can give notice to any of Our offices or call centers.
c. You must state in this notice
i. the Policy Number,
ii. Your name,
iii. details of report to the police that You made,
iv. details of report to any authority that You made,
v. details of the Insured Event
vi. a brief statement of the loss,
vii. particulars of any other insurance of the Insured Property, Your Premises or any other
Property on Your Premises.
viii. details of loss or damage under Add-ons, if any, and
ix. submit photographs of loss or physical damage, wherever possible.
2. Steps to prevent loss and damage
a. You must take all reasonable steps to prevent further loss or damage to the Insured Property.
b. Until We have inspected the Insured Property and Your Premises, and have given Our consent,
i. You must not sell, give away or dispose of any damaged items of any property,
ii. You must not wash or clean, or remove any damaged item or debris, except for any urgent
necessity, and
iii. You must not carry out repairs unless such repairs are urgent and You cannot contact Us.
3. Immediate notice to authorities
a. As soon as any loss or damage occurs to the Insured Property,You must give immediate report to
appropriate legal authorities. For example,You must report to the fire brigade of the local authority
and the police if there is damage by fire/ explosion / implosion or lightning. In case of
subsidence/ landslide/ rockslide, You must inform the District Administration. In the event of
impact damage of any kind or Riot Strikes,
Malicious acts and acts of terrorism, You must inform the police. If there is a theft within 7 (seven)
days following an Insured Event, You must inform the police.
b. We may, but not necessarily, waive this condition if We are satisfied that by reason of extreme
hardship it was not possible for You or any other person on Your behalf to give such report.
Page 27
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
4. Submit claim
i.
a. You must submit Your claim in Our claim-form at the earliest opportunity, but within 30
days from the date You first notice the loss or damage. The claim form is available in
any of Our branches, and on Our web-site.
b. You must state in Your claim the details of any other insurance policy that covers the
damage or loss for which You have filed Your claim, whether You have purchased such
other insurance, or someone else has purchased it for You.
ii. We shall not be liable for any loss or damage after the expiry of 12 months from the happening of
the loss or damage unless the claim is the subject of pending action or arbitration. If We disclaim
liability for a claim You have made and if the claim is not made a subject matter of a suit in a
court of law within a period of 12 months from the date of disclaimer , the claim shall not be
recoverable hereunder.
5. Establish loss
You must prove that the Insured Event has occurred, and the extent of loss or physical damage You
have suffered with full details.
i. You must support Your claim for Insured Property with Plans, specification books, vouchers,
invoices pertaining to costs incurred by You for reconstruction/replacement/repairs.
ii. You must allow Us, Our officers, surveyors or representatives to inspect the Insured Property, and
to take measurements, samples, damaged items or parts, and photographs that are relevant.
iii. You must give Us authority to see the relevant records and get information about the Event and
Your loss from the police or any other authority.
iv. You must give Us, when We request, any additional information that We require for verifying Your
claim.
Page 28
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
6. Fraudulent claim
If You, or anyone on Your behalf, make a claim which is false or fraudulent, or support a claim
with any false or fraudulent statement or documents:
i. We will not pay the claim,
ii. We can cancel the Policy: in such a case, You will lose all benefits under this Policy and premium
that You have paid,
iii. We can also inform the police, and start legal proceedings against You.
7. Other insurance
i. If You have any other policy with Us or any other Insurance Company (taken by You or by
anyone else for You) covering in whole or in part any claim that You have made under this Policy,
You have a right to ask for settlement of Your claim under any of these policies.
ii. If You choose to claim under this Policy from Us, We will settle Your claim within the limits and
the terms and conditions of this Section.
iii. After We pay the amount under Your claim, We have the right to ask for contribution from the
Insurers that have given You the other policies.
iv. We will ensure that Our actions do not impose any liability on You.
8. Our rights relating to Insured Property
i. We must investigate/survey to confirm that Your claim is covered by this Policy. For this purpose,
We will give You notice and request Your cooperation as follows:
a. We and Our representatives will visit Your Premises and inspect the Insured Property,
b. We will ask You to give to Us any items of the Contents of Your Premises, and hold it
with Us for the purposes of examination, testing, or any other investigation, or
c. We will dispose of or deal with or sell any item of the Contents of Your Premises for
which loss We have paid completely.
ii. We will ensure that Our actions will not impose any liability on You.
9. Recovery action by Us
i. When We accept and pay Your claim under the Policy, We can start legal proceedings to
recover the amount or property from the third party who has caused the loss or damage to the
Insured Property. You must give authority to Us to take such action and exercise this right
effectively, when We request You, whether
Page 29
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
before or after making payment of Your claim. You must give all information, cooperation,
assistance and help for this purpose. You must not do anything which will prejudice Our right.
ii. Any amount We recover from such person will be applied first to the costs of the legal
proceedings and recovery, then to the claim amount We have paid or must pay to You. We will
pay You any balance.
iii. You can start legal proceedings against any person who has caused the loss or damage only
with Our prior consent, and on conditions that We will impose. You must not compromise or
settle any claim against such person without Our consent. If You recover any amount from such
person, You must return to Us the amount We have paid for Your claim. We can take over
the conduct of legal proceedings that You have started and continue the proceedings in Your
name.
Clause H. Changes to covers
1. You can choose to make changes to the covers of this Policy, for example, take additional cover or
increase or reduce any Sum Insured. You must make a proposal or request for any change. It will be
effective only after We have accepted Your proposal, and You have paid the additional premium,
where applicable.
2. This Policy (including the Policy Schedule, the proposal, declarations, the Endorsements) consists of
the entire contract between You and Us.
Clause I. Other details
1. Designation of Insured Property
For the purpose of determining under which item any Property is insured, We agree to accept the
designation under which such Property appears in Your books of account.
2. Notices
i. We will send any notice, letter or communication in writing to You at Your address mentioned
in the Policy Schedule, and to Your email address that You have registered with Us.
ii. You will send any notice, letter, intimation or communication in writing to Us at the branch
office where You purchased the Policy. You can also send it at the address mentioned in the
Policy Schedule. You shall not send any notice etc. to the insurance agent, broker or any other
entity. They are not authorised to receive notices etc. on Our behalf.
Page 30
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
3. Applicable law and jurisdiction
This Policy will be subject to the laws of India, and to the jurisdiction of courts in India.
4. Arbitration
If any dispute or difference arises between You and Us regarding the amount of claim to be paid
under this policy (liability having been admitted by Us), such difference shall independently of all
other questions, be referred to the decision of a sole arbitrator to be appointed in writing by You
and Us or if You and We cannot agree upon a single arbitrator within 30 days of either of Us
opting for arbitration, the same shall be referred to a panel of three arbitrators comprising of
two arbitrators, one to be appointed by each of Us, to the dispute/difference and the third
arbitrator to be appointed by such two arbitrators and arbitration shall be conducted under and in
accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996.
SECTION II – FIRE LOSS OF PROFITS
COVERAGE
That if any building or other property or any part thereof used by the Insured at the Premises for the
purpose of the Business, be destroyed or damaged by the perils covered under the Fire Material Damage
Section I, (destruction or damage so caused being hereinafter termed as Damage) and the Business
carried on by the Insured at the Premises be in consequence thereof interrupted or interfered with, then
the Company will pay to the Insured in respect of each item in the Schedule hereto the amount of loss
resulting from such interruption or interference in accordance with the provisions contained herein.
Provided that
1. Such Damage is caused at any time after payment of the Premium during the Period of Insurance
named in the Schedule or of any subsequent period in respect of which the Insured shall have
paid and the Company shall have accepted the premium required for the renewal of the Policy.
2. At the time of the happening of the damage there shall be in force a coverage as per Section I,
covering the interest of the insured in the Property at the Premises against such damage and that
payment shall have been made or liability admitted thereunder. However, this proviso shall not
apply where payment is not made under Section I, solely due to operation of a proviso in the
Section I excluding liability for losses below a specified amount.
3. The liability of the Company shall in no case exceed in respect of each item the sum expressed in
the said Schedule to be insured thereon or in the whole the Total Sum Insured hereby or such
other sum or sums as may hereafter be substituted therefor by memorandum duly signed by or
on behalf of the Company.
CONDITIONS
Page 31
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
1. The insurance by this Policy shall cease if:
a. the Business be wound up or carried on by a Liquidator or Receiver or permanently
discontinued or
b. the Insured‟s interest ceases otherwise than by death or
c. any alteration be made either in the Business or in the Premises or Property therein whereby
the risk of damage is increased, at any time after the commencement of this insurance, unless
its continuance be admitted by memorandum signed by or on behalf of the Company.
Page 32
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
2. Notice shall be given to the Company of alteration in existing blocks, addition of new blocks
and/ or premises and/ or deletion of existing blocks and/ or premises during the currency of the
Policy to enable the Company to determine whether the basis rate of the Policy undergoes a
change as a result of such inclusions/ exclusions and to effect necessary adjustments in the
Premium under this Policy.
3. On the happening of any Damage in consequence of which of claim is or may be made under
this Policy, the Insured shall
a) forthwith give notice thereof to the Company,
b) with due diligence do and concur in doing and permit to be done all things which may be
reasonably practicable to minimise or check any interruption of or interference with the
business or to avoid or diminish the loss,
c) not later than thirty days after the expiry of the Period of Indemnity or within such
further time as the Company may in writing allow, at his own expense deliver to the
Company in writing a statement setting forth particulars of his claim together with details of
all other insurances (if any) covering the Damage or any part of it or consequential loss of
any kind resulting therefrom,
d) at his own expense produce or procure and give to the Company such books of account
and other business books, vouchers, invoices, balance sheets and other documents, proofs,
information explanation and other evidence as may reasonably be required by or on behalf of
the Company for the purpose of investigating or verifying the claim together with a
declaration on oath or in other legal form of the truth of the claim and of any matters
connected therewith.
No claim under this Policy shall be payable unless the terms of this Condition have been
complied with and in the event of non-compliance therewith in any respect, any payment on
account of the claim already made shall be repaid to the Company forthwith.
4. In no case whatsoever shall the Company be liable in respect of any claim under this Policy after
the expiration of:
a) One year from the end of the Period of Indemnity or if later,
b) Three months from the date on which payment shall have been made or liability admitted
by the Company covering the Damage giving rise to the said claim, unless the claim is the
subject of pending action or Arbitration.
5. At all times during the Period of Insurance of this Policy, the insurance cover will be maintained
to the full extent of the respective Sum Insured in consideration of which, upon the settlement of
any loss under this Policy, pro-rata premium for the unexpired period from the date of such loss
to the expiry of Period of Insurance for the amount of such loss shall be payable by Insured to
the Company.
Page 33
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
The additional premium referred above shall be deducted from the net claim amount payable
under the Policy. This continuous cover to the full extent will be available notwithstanding any
previous loss for which the Company may have paid hereunder and irrespective of the fact
whether the additional premium as mentioned above has been actually paid or not following such
loss. The intention of this condition is to ensure continuity of the cover to the Insured subject
only to the right of the Company for deduction from the claim amount when settled of pro-rata
premium to be calculated from the date of loss till expiry of the Policy.
Notwithstanding what is stated above, the Sum Insured shall stand reduced by the amount of
loss in case the Insured, immediately on occurrence of the loss, exercises his option not to
reinstate the Sum Insured as above.
SECTION III - BURGLARY AND HOUSEBREAKING
COVERAGE:
The Company will indemnify, the Insured to the extent of the intrinsic value of:-
a) The Property described in the Schedule hereto or any part thereof shall be lost destroyed or damaged
by Burglary or Housebreaking or robbery or Hold-up;
b) Any damage caused to premises resulting from Burglary and/ or Housebreaking or any attempt
threat, any time during Policy Period.
Provided that the liability of the Company shall in no case exceed in respect of each item the sum
expressed in the Schedule hereto to be insured thereon or in the whole the total sum insured hereby.
SUM INSURED:
It is the requirement of this Insurance that the Sum Insured shall be equal to the market value. However,
Insured may opt for reinstatement value sum insured for Plant and Machinery.
BASIS OF INDEMNITY:
The indemnity in respect of contents, other than stock and stock-in-trade, shall be on the basis of Market
Value.
In the event of Property insured being damaged by any of the specified perils, the Company shall pay for
the amount of damage or loss or at its option replace or repair the damaged property.
If the Property hereby insured shall, at the commencement of any destruction of or damage to the
property by any of the Insured perils is found to be collectively of greater value than the Sum Insured
thereon, then the Insured shall be considered as being his own insurer for the difference and shall bear a
rateable proportion of the loss as this difference bears to such value. Every item, if more than one, of the
Policy shall be separately subject to this condition.
CONDITIONS:
Page 34
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
1. Maintenance of books & keys:
The Insured shall keep a daily record of the amount of cash contained in the safe or strong room and
such record shall be deposited in a secure place other than the safe or strong room and produced as
evidence in support of a claim under this Policy. The keys of the safe or strong room shall not be
left on the premises out of business hours, unless the premises are occupied by the Insured or any
other authorized employee of the Insured, in which case, such keys if left on the premises shall be
deposited in a secure place not in the vicinity of the safe or strong room.
2. Reinstatement and Repair:
The Company at any time before payment of a claim and notwithstanding that an offer of settlement
has been made instead of paying the amount of the loss or damage in respect of any property or the
premises may make it good by reinstating or replacing any of the property stolen or repairing the
premises damaged or such items or part thereof as the Company may think fit and paying the amount
of the loss or damage in respect of the residue of such property or premises. Provided that if the
Company elects to replace any property or reinstate any premises the Company in making good the
loss or damage shall not be bound to replace or reinstate such property or premises exactly and
completely but only to do so substantially as nearly as circumstances permit and in a reasonably
sufficient manner. In case where any of the property or premises are insured elsewhere the Company
may join with any other insurance company or insurers in replacing or reinstating the same.
3. Book-Keeping Warranty:
Warranted that the Insured keeps and during the whole of the currency of this Policy shall keep a
complete set of Books, Accounts and Stock Sheets or Stock Books showing a true and accurate record
of all business transactions, and Stock in hand, and that such Books, Accounts and Stock Sheets or
Stock Books shall be locked in a fire-proof safe or removed to another building at night and at all times
when the premises are not actually open for business. This warranty applies separately to each and
every business or branch business. Transfers of goods from one premise to another shall be a business
transaction within the meaning of this warranty. It is further warranted that the said safe shall not
contain explosives or other hazardous commodities.
4. Damage Entry Warranty:
For a claim to lie under this warranty, there shall be actual visible damage caused to the premises or
part thereof or connected with violent and forcible entry in the premises.
5. Protection:
It is a condition precedent to liability under this Policy that:-
a) all protections in force at the premises at the inception of the cover or subsequently as stipulated by
or agreed by the Company shall be in full operation securing the premises, whether the premises
are closed for business or left unattended.
Page 35
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
b) any keys for the premises and /or intruder alarm systems or safes and /or strong rooms and /or
any other secured area or device in which insured Property is kept are removed from the premises
whenever the premises are closed for business or left unattended.
c) the Insured maintains the secrecy of codes for the Intruder Alarm Installation to authorised
persons and no details of the same are left in the insured premises.
d) It is warranted that adequate protection to the doors, windows and all other such openings in the
premises are properly maintained during the currency of the Policy.
6. Occupation of premises:
The Company may at any time after the occurrence of damage to the Property insured enter upon the
premises and take and keep possession of the Property concerned and deal with the salvage and this
Policy shall be proof of leave and license for such purpose, and if the Insured or anyone acting on his
behalf shall obstruct or prevent the Company from so doing, all benefit under this Policy shall be
forfeited.
Upon payment of any claim for loss under this Policy, the Property in respect of which the payment is
made shall belong to the Company.
No property may be abandoned to the Company.
EXCLUSIONS:
A. This Policy does not cover the following unless specially mentioned in the Schedule and expressly
insured by the Policy:-
1) Gold or Silver articles, watches, any precious metals, articles made from any precious metals,
jewellery, precious stones, medals, coins, stamp collections, coin collections, curios, sculptures,
manuscripts, rare books or documents of any kind.
2) Deeds, bonds, bills of exchange, treasury or promissory notes, bank notes, money or securities for
money, ATM cards, credit cards, charge cards, monetary instruments, stamps, business books or
documents, books of accounts, cheques, share certificates, tickets, stamps, plans, patterns, models,
moulds, designs, specifications, blue prints, document of title to goods, contracts or other legal
documents or documents of any other kind.
3) Loss or damage which is recoverable under Fire, Plate Glass, Neon Sign, Marine Cargo Insurance
Policy or any other policy under which such coverage has been obtained by the Insured.
4) Loss or damage where any inmate or member of the Insured‟s household or of his business staff or
any other person lawfully in the premises is concerned in the actual theft of or damage to any of
the articles or premises or where such loss or damage has been expedited or in any way assisted or
brought about by any such person or persons.
5) Loss or damage occasioned by loot, sack, spillage or pilferage.
Page 36
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
6) Theft or attempted theft from yards, gardens, open spaces or out-buildings unless the contents
thereof are specifically insured by the Policy.
7) Loss of money and/or other property abstracted from safe following the use of the key to the
said safe or any duplicate thereof belonging to the Insured, unless such key has been obtained by
assault or violence or any threat thereof.
8) Loss of or damage to any property insured under this Policy due to any misfeasance, malfeasance
or nonfeasance or breach of trust in relation thereto by the Insured.
B. This Policy shall cease to attach:-
1) If the premises shall have been left uninhabited by day and night for seven or more consecutive
days and nights while the premises shall have been left uninhabited.
2) To any Property insured which shall be removed from the premises in which it is herein stated to
be safe so far as is expressly provided for in the Policy or these conditions.
3) To any Property the interest of the Insured which shall pass from the Insured otherwise than by
will or operation of law; unless in every case the consent of the Company to the continuance of the
insurance thereon is obtained and signified by a memorandum made on the Policy by or on behalf
of the Company.
SECTION IV - MONEY INSURANCE
COVERAGE:
The Company will indemnify the Insured:
a) Up to the Limit of Indemnity specified in the Schedule for the loss in Transit of Money whilst
carried by the Insured or its authorised Employee, caused by Robbery, Theft or any other
fortuitous event, and/or
b) Up to the Limit of Indemnity specified in the Schedule for the loss of Money from a Safe and/or
Strong Room in the premises mentioned in the Schedule caused by Burglary or Robbery or any
other fortuitous event, and/or
c) Up to the Limit of Indemnity specified in the Schedule for the loss of Money from the Insured‟s
cash counter in the premises mentioned in the Schedule during office hours caused by
Housebreaking or Robbery or any other fortuitous event.
Provided that the Insured event mentioned above occurs during the Policy Period and is notified to the
Company in accordance with Special Condition –“Notification and Declaration” enumerated hereunder.
Provided that the liability of the Company shall in no case exceed in respect of each item the Sum
expressed in the Schedule hereto to be Insured thereon or in the whole the Total Sum Insured hereby.
Page 37
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
SUM INSURED:
The Sum Insured under Policy would be the Annual Carrying Limit for Money in Transit. For Money
in Safe the sum insured will be the amount declared by the Insured at that particular location or on a
floater basis.
BASIS OF INDEMNITY:
The basis of indemnity for Money in Safe is subject to the maximum amount for which Company will
make payment in relation to any one Claim. In respect of Money in Transit, the amount stated against
“Money in Transit per Carrying” limit is the maximum amount for which the Company will make
payment in relation to any one Claim during the Policy Period.
CONDITIONS
1) Inspection of Books:
The Insured acknowledges that the premium in so far as it relates to operative clause has been
determined by reference to the Insured's estimate of the amount of Money in Transit, as stated in the
Schedule. It is hereby agreed that during the Policy Period the Insured shall maintain a proper and
contemporaneous record of the actual amount of Money in Transit, which record shall be available
for inspection by the Company at any reasonable time.
2) Notifications & Declarations:
Any and all notices and declarations for the attention of the Company shall be submitted in writing
and shall be sent to the address specified in the Schedule.
Insured's duty upon the happening of an insured event: - It is a condition precedent to the Company's
liability hereunder that the Insured shall:
a) Immediately and in any event within 24 hours of the happening of any insured event giving rise to or
likely to give rise to any Claim under this Policy give written notice to the Company to the
address shown in the Schedule;
b) Immediately and in any event within 24 hours lodge a complaint with the police detailing the
Money lost in respect of which the Insured intends to submit a Claim, and within the same period
provide a copy of that written complaint, the First Information Report to the Company, or the
circumstances which might reasonably be expected to give rise to a Claim;
c) within 14 days deliver to the Company a detailed written statement of the Money lost and an
estimate of the quantum of any Claim along with all documentation required to support and
substantiate the amount sought from the Company. In the case of the notification of an event
likely to give rise to a Claim, the Insured shall specify in writing the grounds for holding such
belief.
Page 38
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
d) expeditiously provide the Company and its representatives and appointees with all the
information, assistance and documentation that they might reasonably require.
e) take all reasonable steps to identify the perpetrators of the Burglary and/or Robbery and discover
and recover any Money lost;
f) take all reasonable steps to secure the Insured Premises and Money against a repeat of any
Burglary and/or Robbery and/or fortuitous event, and/or prevent the same from occurring.
3) Books of Record:
a) The Insured shall maintain a contemporaneous daily written record of the Money contained in
the Safe and/or Strong Room and/or In Transit and such record shall be deposited in a safe
secure place other than the Safe and/or Strong Room and be produced to the Company in the
event of any Claim under this Policy.
b) The Insured shall allow the Company at any reasonable time to inspect the Safe and/or Strong
Room and/or Insured Premises and in the event of any defect or danger being apparent, the
Company may give written notice of the same to Insured whereupon the indemnity under this
Policy and the liability of the Company arising from or connected to such defect shall be
suspended until such time as it is rectified by the Insured and confirmed by the Company to have
been rectified to its satisfaction.
4) Occupation of premises:
The Company may at any time after the occurrence of damage to the Property insured enter upon the
premises and take and keep possession of the property concerned and deal with the salvage and this
Policy shall be proof of leave and license for such purpose, and if the Insured or anyone acting on his
behalf shall obstruct or prevent the Company from so doing, all benefit under this Policy shall be
forfeited.
Upon payment of any claim for loss under this Policy, the Property in respect of which the payment is
made shall belong to the Company.
No property may be abandoned to the Company.
EXCLUSIONS:
This Policy does not cover the following unless specially mentioned in the Schedule and expressly
insured by the Policy:-
1) Loss of Money carried by anyone other than the Insured or an Authorised Employee of the Insured.
2) Loss of Money where the Insured or his Authorised Employee is alleged to be involved as a
principal or accessory or is alleged to be in anyway concerned or implicated.
3) If the Money is consigned to any person (other than a full time permanent employee of the Insured
in employment of the Insured under an express contract of employment), agency or organisation
engaged in the transportation of Money for third parties;
Page 39
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
4) Loss of Money in the Insured Premises where such Money is stored other than in a Safe or Strong
Room, after business hours.
5) Money carried under contract of affreightment.
6) Loss of money from an unattended vehicle.
7) Loss from a safe or strong room following use of the safe or strong room key(s) or any duplicate
thereof belonging to the Insured, unless this has been obtained by threat or by violence to the
person in custody of the key(s);
8) Loss due to or in any way contributed to by the Insured having knowingly permitted or caused or
suffered anything to be done or not done whereby the risks hereby insured against were increased.
9) Any loss of or damage to any property, whether belonging to the Insured, an Employee or any third
party.
10) Any personal or bodily or mental injury or suffering of any description. In any action suit or other
proceeding where the Company alleges that by reason of any exclusion any Claim is not covered by
this Policy, the burden of proving that such Claim is covered shall be upon the Insured.
SECTION V – ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL APPLICANCES INSURANCE
COVERAGE:
The Company will indemnify the Insured against unforeseen and sudden physical damage caused by
and/or solely due to electrical and /or mechanical breakdown or by any cause not hereinafter excluded
to any insured Property specified in the attached schedule(s) whilst in the premises therein mentioned
necessitating its immediate repair or replacement.
This Policy shall apply to the insured items after successful completion of their performance/acceptance
tests, whether they are at work or at rest, or being dismantled for the purpose of cleaning or overhauling,
or in the course of the aforesaid operations themselves, or when being shifted within the premises, or
during subsequent re-erection.
Provided that the liability of the Company for any one item of the insured Property shall not exceed in
the aggregate in any one Period of Insurance the Sum Insured set against such in the attached
schedule(s), unless the Sum Insured under such item is reinstated after occurrence of a claim for balance
period.
SUM INSURED:
The Sum Insured in respect of each item for coverage under this section shall be equal to the cost of
replacement of such item of the same kind and capacity which shall mean its current new replacement
cost including freight, customs duty, other dues, if any, and cost of erection on current new replacement
value basis.
Page 40
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
BASIS OF INDEMNITY:
a) In cases where damage to an insured item can be repaired, the Company will pay expense necessarily
incurred to restore the damaged machine to its former state of serviceability plus the cost of
dismantling and re-erection incurred for the purpose of effecting the repairs as well as ordinary
freight to and from a repair shop, customs duties if any to the extent such expenses have been
included in the Sum Insured. If the repairs are executed at a workshop owned by the Insured the
Company will pay the cost of materials and wages incurred for the purpose of the repairs plus a
reasonable percentage to cover overhead charges.
No deduction shall be made for depreciation in respect of parts replaced except for (i) wear and tear
parts and (ii) parts for which manufacturers have specified a fixed life for use and the like but the
value of any salvage will be taken into account.
If the cost of repairs as detailed hereinabove equals or exceeds the actual value of the machinery
Insured immediately before the occurrence of the damage the settlement shall be made on the basis
provided for in (b) below.
b) In cases where an insured item is destroyed, the Company will pay the actual value of the item
immediately before the occurrence of the loss including costs for ordinary freight erection and
customs duties if any provided such expenses have been included in the Sum Insured, such actual
value to be calculated by deducting proper depreciation from the replacement value of the item.
The Company will also pay any normal charges for the dismantling of the machinery destroyed but
the salvage will be taken into account.
Any extra charges incurred for overtime, night-work, work on public holidays, express freight are
covered by this insurance only if especially agreed to in writing.
In the event of the makers' drawings, patterns and for boxes necessary for the execution of a repair
not being available the Company shall not be liable for cost of making any such drawing patterns or
core boxes.
The cost of any alterations, improvements or overhauls shall not be recoverable under this Policy.
The cost of any provisional repairs will be borne by the Company if such repairs constitute part of
the final repairs and do not increase the total repair expenses.
If the Sum Insured is less than the amount required to be insured, the Company will pay only in
such proportion as the Sum Insured bears to the amount required to be insured. Every item if more
than one shall be subject to this condition separately.
The Company will make payments only after being satisfied, with the necessary bills and documents
that the repairs have been effected or replacements have taken place, as the case may be.
CONDITIONS :
No admission, offer, promise, payment or indemnity shall be made or given by or on behalf of the
Insured without the written consent of the Company who shall be entitled if they so desire to take
Page 41
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
over and conduct in the name of the Insured the defence or settlement of any claim for indemnity
or damage or otherwise and shall have full discretion in the conduct of any proceeding or in the
settlement of any claim and the Insured shall give all such information and assistance as the
Company may require.
EXCLUSIONS:
THE COMPANY SHALL NOT BE LIABLE UNDER THIS POLICY IN RESPECT OF -
1 Loss, damage and/or liability caused by or arising from or in consequence, directly or indirectly of
fire including extinguishment of a fire or clearance of debris and dismantling necessitated thereby,
smoke, soot, aggressive substance, lightning, explosion of any kind (other than bursting or disruption of
turbines, compressors, cylinders of steam engines, hydraulic cylinders or fly wheels or other
apparatus subject to centrifugal force, internal pressure) theft, collapse of buildings, subsidence,
landslide, rockslide, water which escapes from water containing apparatus, flood, inundation,
storm, tempest, earthquake, volcanic eruption or other Acts of God, impact of land borne or
waterborne or airborne craft or other aerial devices and/or articles dropped therefrom.
Any loss or damage by fire within the electrical appliances and installation insured by this Policy
arising from or occasioned by overrunning, excessive pressure, short circuiting, arcing, self heating or
leakage of electricity, from whatever cause (lightning included), is covered; provided that this
extension shall apply only to the particular electrical machine; apparatus fixture fitting or portions of the
electrical installation so affected and not to other machines, apparatus, fixtures fittings or portions
of the electrical installation which may be destroyed or damaged by fire so set up.
2 Accident, Loss, damage/and/or liability resulting from over load experiments or tests requiring the
imposition of abnormal conditions.
3 Gradually developing flaws, defects, cracks or partial fractures in any part not necessitating
immediate stoppage, although at some future time repair or renewal of the parts affected may be
necessary.
4 Loss, damage and/or liability caused by or arising out of the willful act to willful neglect or gross
negligence of the Insured or his responsible representatives.
5 Liability assumed by the Insured by agreement unless such liability would have attached to the
Insured notwithstanding such agreement.
6 Loss, damage and/or liability due to faults or defects existing at the time of commencement of this
insurance and known to the Insured or his responsible representative but not disclosed to the
Company.
7 Loss of use of the Insured's plant or property of any other consequential loss incurred by the
Insured.
Page 42
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
8 Loss, damage/and/or liability due to explosions in chemical recovery boilers, other than pressure
explosions for e.g. smelt, chemical, ignition, explosions etc.
9. Loss of or damage to belts, ropes, chains, rubber tyres, dies, moulds, blades, cutters, knives or
exchangeable tools, engraved or impression cylinders or rolls; objects made of glass, porcelain,
ceramics, all operating media (e.g. lubricating oil, fuel, catalyst, refrigerant, dowtherm) felts, endless
conveyor belts or wires; sieves, fabrics, heat resisting and anti-corrosive lining and parts of similar
nature, packing material, parts not made of metal (except insulating material) and non-metallic lining
or coating of metal parts; unless loss or damage to the equipments/machinery is indemnifiable in
terms of the Policy.
10. Loss or damage for which the manufacturer or supplier or repairer of the Property is responsible
either by law or contract.
In any action, suit or other proceeding where the Company alleges that by reason of the provisions of
the exceptions or exclusions above, any loss, destruction, damage or liability is not covered by this
insurance, the burden of proving that such loss, destruction, damage or liability is covered shall be upon
the Insured.
SECTION VI - ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT INSURANCE
COVERAGE:
The Company hereby agrees with the Insured to indemnify any unforeseen and sudden physical loss or
damage from any cause, other than those specifically excluded, in a manner necessitating repair or
replacement, up to an amount not exceeding in respect of each of the items specified in the Schedule the
sum set opposite thereto and not exceeding in all the total sum expressed in the Schedule as insured
hereby.
This coverage shall apply to the Insured items only after successful completion of their Performance /
acceptance test whether they are at work or at rest or being dismantled for the purpose of cleaning or
overhauling or in the course of aforesaid operations themselves or when being shifted within the
premises or during subsequent re-erection.
EXCLUSIONS:
The Company shall not, however, be liable for:
a) Loss and / or damage due to wilful act or wilful negligence of the Insured or his representative.
b) Loss and / or damage due to cessation of work whether total or partial. Cost Incurred/time
involved in the movement of machinery and/or any other property and / or personnel outside
the territorial limits of India other than the cost of delivery of replacements for machinery lost or
damaged. Loss and / or damage due to derangement of the Insured Property not accompanied
by damage otherwise covered by this Policy. Loss and / or damage due to the Property covered
under this Policy falling under the terms of the maintenance agreement.
Page 43
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
c) Loss and / or damage directly occasioned by pressure wave caused by aircraft and other aerial
devices travelling at Sonic or Supersonic speeds.
d) Loss and / or damage caused by any faults or defects existing at the time of commencement of
the present insurance within the knowledge of the Insured, or his representatives, whether such
faults or defects were known to the Company or not;
e) Any costs incurred in connection with the elimination of functional failures unless such failures
were caused by an indemnifiable loss of or damage to the insured items;
f) Any costs incurred in connection with the maintenance of the insured items, such exclusion also
applying to parts exchanged in the course of such maintenance operations;
g) Loss or damage for which the manufacturer or supplier of the insured items is responsible either
by law or under contract;
h) Loss of or damage to rented or hired equipment for which the owner is responsible either by law
or under a lease and/or maintenance agreement;
i) Loss of or damage to bulbs, valves, tubes, ribbons, fuses, seals, belts, wires, chains, rubber tyres,
exchangeable tools, engraved cylinders, objects made of glass, porcelain or ceramics sieves or
fabrics, or any operating media (e.g. lubricating oil, fuel, chemicals);
j) Aesthetic defects, such as scratches on painted polished or enamelled surfaces.
k) Consequential loss of any kind including increased cost of working.
l) Loss and or damage to application software, unless agreed in advance and mentioned in the
Policy.
SUM INSURED:
It is a requirement of this insurance that the Sum Insured shall be equal to the cost of replacement of the
insured Property by new property of the same kind and same capacity, which shall mean its replacement
cost including freight, dues and customs duties, if any and erection costs.
The Sum Insured of the equipment insured under this section shall include the value of „System
Software‟.
BASIS OF INDEMNITY:
a) In cases where damage to an insured item can be repaired the Company will pay expenses necessarily
incurred to restore the damaged machine to its former state of serviceability plus the cost of dismantling
and re-erection incurred for the purpose of effecting the repairs as well as ordinary freight to and from a
repair-shop customs duties and dues if any, to the extent such expenses have been included in the Sum
Insured. If the repairs are executed at a workshop owned by the Insured, the Company will pay the cost
of materials and wages incurred for the purpose of the repairs plus a reasonable percentage to cover
overhead charges.
No deduction shall be made for depreciation in respect of parts replaced, except those with limited life,
but the value of any salvage will be taken into account. If the cost of repairs as detailed hereinabove
equals or exceeds the actual value of the machinery insured immediately before the occurrence of the
damage, the settlement shall be made on the basis provided for in (b) below.
b) In cases where an insured item is destroyed, the Company will pay the actual value of the item
immediately before the occurrence of the loss, including costs for ordinary freight, erection and customs
duties if any, provided such expenses have been included in the Sum Insured, such actual value to be
Page 44
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
calculated by deducting proper depreciation from the replacement value of the item. The Company will
also pay any normal charges for the dismantling of the machinery destroyed, but the salvage will be taken
into account.
Any extra charges incurred for overtime, night-work, work on public holidays, express freight, are
covered by this Insurance only if especially agreed to in writing.
In the event of the Makers' drawings, patterns and core boxes necessary for the execution of a repair not
being available the Company shall not be liable for the cost of making any such drawings, patterns and
core boxes.
The cost of any alterations, improvements or overhauls shall not be recoverable under this Policy.
The cost of any provisional repairs will be borne by the Company if such repairs constitute part of the
final repairs, and do not increase the total repair expenses.
c) In cases where the Insured item is subjected to total loss and meanwhile it becomes obsolete, all costs
necessary to replace the lost or damaged insured item with a follow-up model (similar type) of similar
structure/ configuration (of similar quality) ie low, average or high capacity – will be reimbursed.
If the Sum Insured is less than the amount required to be insured hereinabove, the Company will pay
only in such proportion as the Sum Insured bears to the amount required to be insured. Every item if
more than one shall be subject to this condition separately. The Company will make payments only after
being satisfied, with necessary bills and documents that the repairs have been effected or replacements
have taken place, as the case may be. The Company may, however, not insist for bills and documents in
case of total loss where the Insured is unable to replace the damaged equipment for reasons beyond their
control. In such cases, claims can be settled on “Indemnity Basis”
SECTION VII – BOILER AND PRESSURE PLANT
COVERAGE:
The Company will at its own option by payment or reinstatement or repair indemnify the Insured
against:
1. Damage (other than by fire) to the Boilers and/or other Pressure Plant described in the Schedule;
2. Damage (other than by fire) to surrounding property of the Insured described in the Schedule or
to property held by the Insured in trust or on commission or for which he is responsible;
3. Liability of the Insured at law on account of -
a) death of or bodily injury to any person (other than a person under a contract of service or
apprenticeship with the Insured sustaining death or bodily injury which arises out of and in the
course of employment with the Insured);
b) damage to property not belonging to the Insured nor held in trust or on commission nor for
which he is responsible;
Page 45
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
caused by and solely due to explosion or collapse as hereinafter defined of any Boiler or other Pressure
Plant described in the Schedule occurring in the course of ordinary working.
Provided that the liability of the Company for any one item of the insured Property and third party
liability shall not exceed in the aggregate in any one Period of Insurance the Sum Insured set against such
item in the attached Schedule(s) unless the Sum Insured under such item is reinstated after occurrence of
a claim for balance period.
SUM INSURED:
The Sum Insured in respect of each Boiler and Pressure Plant for coverage under this section shall be
equal to the cost of replacement of such item of the same kind and capacity which shall mean its current
new replacement cost including freight, customs duty, other dues, if any, and cost of erection on current
new replacement value basis.
BASIS OF INDEMNITY:
a. In case where damage to an item can be repaired, the Company shall pay expenses
necessarily incurred to restore the damaged machine to its former state of serviceability plus the cost
of dismantling and re-erection incurred for the purpose of effecting the repairs, as well as ordinary
freight to and from a repair shop, customs duties, if any but for the Boiler and Pressure Vessel listed
in the Schedule, only to the extent such expenses have been included in the Sum Insured. If the
repairs are executed at a workshop owned by the Insured, the Company shall pay the cost of materials
and wages incurred for the purpose of the repairs plus the reasonable percentage to cover overhead
charges. No deduction shall be made for depreciation in respect of parts replaced, but the value of any
salvage shall be taken into the account if the cost of repairs as detailed herein above equals or exceeds
the actual value of the item immediately before the occurrence of the damage, the settlement shall be
made on the basis provided for in (b) below.
b. In case where an insured item is destroyed the Company shall pay the actual value of the
item immediately before the occurrence of the loss, including changes for ordinary freight cost of
erection and customs duties if any but for the Boiler and Pressure Vessels listed in the Schedule, only
provided such expenses have been included in the Sum Insured, such actual value to be calculated by
deducting proper depreciation from the replacement value of the item. The Company shall also pay
any normal charges for the dismantling of the item destroyed, but the salvage shall be taken into
account.
Any extra charges incurred for overtime night work, work on public holiday and excess freight shall be
covered by this Policy only if especially agreed in writing.
The Company will make payments only after being satisfied, with the necessary bills and documents that
the repairs have been effected or replacements have taken place, as the case may be.
WARRANTIES:
It is hereby warranted that during the currency of the Policy;
Page 46
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
i) The Boiler and Pressure Plants described in the Schedule are annually inspected by Inspectors
appointed by the appropriate Government except where there is no statutory requirement for
Government Inspection; the inspections are to be carried out by an independent competent person;
ii) The Boilers and Pressure Plant described in the Schedule shall only be operated by attendants
holding a valid certificate of competency issued under the appropriate Boiler Act;
iii) The Insured shall be in possession of the unqualified permission in writing of the competent
Inspecting Authority to operate the said Boilers and Pressure Plant. If the maximum pressure or load
upon safety valve immediately prior to any explosion or collapse was in excess of that stipulated by
the said Authority the Insured shall not be entitled to any compensation or indemnity under this
Policy in respect of such explosion or collapse.
CONDITIONS:
1. The pressure or load upon the safety valves of any items of plant shall at no time exceed
the maximum pressure specified in the Schedule or the permissible working pressure therefore as set out
in the report on the last examination whichever is the lowest.
2. If at any time after commencement of this Insurance there is an alteration of fuel used
other than for which the Boiler was designed or which is used at the time of effecting the insurance,
the Company shall be informed immediately of such alteration and this insurance will continue only
on payment of additional premium if necessary to be fixed on the merits of each individual item.
3. No admission, offer promise, payment or indemnity shall be made or given by or on behalf of
the Insured without the written consent of the Company who shall be entitled if they so desire to take
over and conduct in the name of the Insured the defense or settlement of any claim for indemnity
or damage or otherwise and shall have full discretion in the conduct of any proceeding or in the
settlement of any claim and the Insured shall give all such information and assistance as the
Company may require.
EXCLUSIONS:
THE COMPANY SHALL NOT BE LIABLE UNDER THIS POLICY IN RESPECT OF -
1. Loss damage and/or liability caused by or arising from or in consequences, directly or indirectly of
Fire (arising from explosion or collapse or any other cause whatsoever) including extinguishment of a
fire or clearance of debris and dismantling necessitated thereby, smoke, soot, aggressive substance
lightning, theft, collapse of buildings, subsidence, landslide, rockslide, water which escapes from
water containing apparatus, flood, inundation, storm, tempest, earthquake, volcanic eruption or other
Acts of God, impact of land borne, waterborne, or airborne craft or other aerial devices and/or
articles dropped therefrom.
2. Accident loss damage and/or liability resulting from overload experiments or tests requiring the
imposition of abnormal conditions.
Page 47
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
3. Gradually developing flows, defects, cracks or partial fractures in any part not necessitating
immediate stoppage although at some future time repair or renewal of the parts affected may be
necessary.
4. Defects due to the wearing away or the wasting of the materials of a Boiler or a Pressure Plant
whether by leakage, corrosion or by the action of the fuel or otherwise the grooving or the fracturing
of any of the parts of a Boiler or pressure plant or for deterioration generally or for the development
of cracks blisters, lamination and other flaws or fractures, failures of joint within the range of steam
or feed pipes, or for bulging and deformation due to overheating of tubes (unless such defects,
fracture, failure or bulging result in explosion or collapse) or for the cracking of section of cast-iron
heating boilers or other vessels constructed of cast iron.
5. The failure of individual tubes in Boilers of the water tube locomotive or other multitubular types, in
super heaters or in economizers (unless such defects result in explosion or collapse).
6. Loss or damage to the insured plant or property and/or liability arising during and occasioned by the
application of steam hydraulic or any other test of this plant as specified by Inspecting Authority or
otherwise.
7. Loss or damage and/or liability caused by or arising out of the wilful act or wilful neglect or gross
negligence of the Insured or his responsible representatives.
8. Liability assumed by the Insured by agreement unless such liability would have attached to the
Insured not withstanding such agreement.
9. Loss or damage and/or liability due to faults or defects existing at the time of commencement of this
Insurance and known to the Insured or his responsible representatives but not disclosed to the
Company.
10. Loss of use of the Insured's plant or property or any other consequential loss incurred by the
Insured.
11. Loss or damage for which the manufacturer or supplier or repairer of the Property is responsible
either by law or under contracts.
In any action, suit or other proceeding where the Company alleges that by reason of the exceptions or
exclusions above any loss destruction, damage or liability is not covered by this insurance, the burden of
proving that such loss destruction, damage or liability is covered shall be upon the Insured.
SECTION VIII – PORTABLE EQUIPMENTS ALL RISK INSURANCE
COVERAGE:
The Company hereby agrees subject to the terms, conditions and exclusions herein contained or
endorsed or otherwise expressed hereon, to indemnify the Insured to the extent of the intrinsic value of
the property of the Insured or member(s) of his family, so lost, destroyed or damaged, by Fire, Riot and
Strike, Theft or Accident, from any fortuitous cause, any time during the period of this Insurance and
within the limits stated in the Schedule hereto, provided that the liability of the Company shall in no case
Page 48
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
exceed in respect of each item the sum expressed in the Schedule hereto to be insured thereon or in the
whole the total Sum Insured hereby.
SUM INSURED:
The Sum Insured under the Policy would be fixed on current market value basis (i.e. new replacement
cost less depreciation).
BASIS OF INDEMNITY:
The indemnity in respect of the items covered under this section will be on the basis of Market Value.
In the event of Property insured being damaged by any of the specified perils, the Company shall pay for
the amount of damage or loss or at its option replace or repair the damaged item.
If the item hereby insured shall, at the commencement of any destruction of or damage to the item by
any of the Insured perils be collectively of greater value than the Sum Insured thereon, then the Insured
shall be considered as being his own insurer for the difference and shall bear a rateable proportion of the
loss as Sum Insured bears to such value. Every item, if more than one, of the Policy shall be separately
subject to this Condition.
Upon happening of the damage, the Sum Insured shall stand reduced by the amount of such loss paid by
the Company. The Sum Insured shall be reinstated only upon the Insured paying the Company the prorata
premium for the unexpired Period of Insurance from the date of such loss to the expiry date of the Policy
for the amount of such loss.
CONDITIONS:
1. Single Article Limit:
Unless specifically and separately stated, the Company‟s liability in respect of each article or pairs of
articles shall not exceed 5% of the Total Sum Insured under this Policy.
2. Articles in Pairs or Sets:
Where any item insured hereunder consists of articles in pair or set, the Company‟s liability in
respect thereof shall not exceed the value of any particular part or parts which may be lost or
damaged without reference to any special value which such articles or articles may have as part of
such pair or set not more than a proportionate part of the insured value of the pair or set.
EXCLUSIONS:
This Policy does not cover the following unless specially mentioned in the Schedule and expressly
insured by the Policy:-
Page 49
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
1. Breakage, cracking or scratching of crockery, glass, cameras, binoculars, lenses, sculptures, curious,
pictures, musical instruments, sports gear and similar articles of brittle or fragile nature, unless
caused by fire or accident to the means of conveyance.
2. Overwinding, denting or internal damage of watches and clocks.
3. Loss or damage to money, securities, manuscripts, deeds, bonds, bills of exchange, promissory
notes, stock or share certificates, stamps, travel tickets, travellers‟ cheques, business books or
documents.
4. Theft from any car except car of fully enclosed saloon type having at the time all the doors, windows
and other openings securely locked and properly fastened.
5 . Loss or damage due to or contributed to by the Insured having caused or suffered anything to be
done whereby the risks hereby insured against were unnecessarily increased.
SECTION IX - FIXED GLASS AND SANITARY FITTINGS
COVERAGE:
The Company hereby agrees, subject to the terms, conditions and exclusions herein contained or
endorsed or otherwise expressed hereon, to indemnify, the Insured to the extent of the Intrinsic Value of
any Plate Glass described in the Schedule accidentally Damaged (“Damage” as hereinafter defined) or
any loss due to any fortuitous event not hereinafter excluded in respect of each item the Sum Insured
thereon expressed in the Schedule or in the whole in any one Period of Insurance the Total Sum Insured
hereby or such sum or sums as may be substituted thereof by endorsement hereon or attached hereto
signed by or on behalf of the Company.
SUM INSURED:
The basis of valuation in respect of each item covered under this section shall be on Market Value basis.
BASIS OF INDEMNITY:
The indemnity in respect of the items covered under this section will be on the basis of or Market Value,
In the event of Property insured being damaged by any of the specified perils, the Company shall pay for
the amount of damage or loss or at its option replace or repair the damaged item.
If the item hereby insured shall, at the commencement of any destruction of or damage to the item by
any of the Insured perils be collectively of greater value than the Sum Insured thereon, then the Insured
shall be considered as being his own insurer for the difference and shall bear a rateable proportion of the
loss as Sum Insured bears to such value. Every item, if more than one, of the Policy shall be separately
subject to this condition.
Upon happening of the damage, the Sum Insured shall stand reduced by the amount of such loss paid by
the Company. The Sum Insured shall be reinstated only upon the Insured paying the Company the prorata
Page 50
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
premium for the unexpired Period of Insurance from the date of such loss to the expiry date of the Policy
for the amount of such loss.
CONDITIONS:
1. ASSESSMENT OF PAYMENT:
The Company may, in its sole and absolute discretion, repair, replace or reinstate the Plate Glass to a
condition equivalent to that which existed immediately prior to the insured event as an alternative to
making payment to the Insured.
If the Company opts to make payment to the Insured, then:
a) The payment will be assessed by reference to the cost of replacing the Plate Glass with glass of
plain and ordinary glazing quality, unless specifically stated otherwise in the Schedule.
b) Where any Plate Glass is no longer in production, the payment will be assessed by reference to
the latest available price that was being charged by reputable manufacturers for the same or
similar Plate Glass.
c) The Company‟s liability to make payment shall be up to the Insured Value as specified in the
Schedule for each item of Plate Glass.
d) All Plate Glass in respect of which a Claim is accepted under this Policy shall become the
property of the Company and the Insured shall, at its own expense, take all steps to preserve it
and remove from it any uninsured items.
EXCLUSIONS:
The Company shall not be liable in respect of:
1. Any loss or damage caused wilfully or knowingly by the Insured, or any loss or damage in which the
Insured or any person acting on his behalf is involved or implicated.
2. Damage arising from the Plate Glass being worked upon in any manner or during its removal or
replacement or arising out of or in course of alterations to the Premises.
3. Frames or framework of any description or the cost of removal of any fittings, fixtures or other
obstructions.
4. Scratched, cracked or imperfect Plate Glass.
5. Disfiguration or scratching or damage to glass other than fracture extending through the entire
thickness of glass;
6. Breakage of glass not completely and securely fixed;
Page 51
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
7. Damage as a result of faulty workmanship and/or defective design of frames or framework or
fittings or fixtures of any description.
8. Costs of recreating any glazing and/or lettering and /or ornamentation and /or any surface treatment
or surfacing on the damaged Plate Glass unless such is specifically declared for insurance hereon.
SECTION X – ACCOMPANIED BAGGAGE INSURANCE
COVERAGE:
The Company hereby agrees, subject to the terms, conditions and exclusions herein contained or endorsed
or otherwise expressed hereon, to indemnify the Insured to the extent of the Intrinsic Value of the
accompanied personal baggage of the Insured or member(s) of his family, so lost, destroyed or damaged by
Fire, Riot and Strike, Theft by visible physical forcible and violent means or Accident from any fortuitous
event, anytime, whilst the Insured is travelling on tour and or on holiday, in all places and situations, during
the Period of Insurance and within the limits stated in the Schedule hereto, provided always that the liability
of the Company shall in no case exceed the Sum Insured on each item or on the whole total Sum Insured
hereby.
SUM INSURED:
The Sum Insured under the Policy would be fixed on Market Value basis.
BASIS OF INDEMNITY:
The indemnity in respect of the items covered under this section will be on the basis of Market Value.
In the event of Property insured being damaged by any of the specified perils, the Company shall pay for
the amount of damage or loss or at its option replace or repair the damaged item.
If the item hereby insured shall, at the commencement of any destruction of or damage to the item by
any of the Insured perils be collectively of greater value than the Sum Insured thereon, then the Insured
shall be considered as being his own insurer for the difference and shall bear a rateable proportion of the
loss as Sum Insured bears to such value. Every item, if more than one, of the Policy shall be separately
subject to this condition.
Upon happening of the Damage, the Sum Insured shall stand reduced by the amount of such loss paid by
the Company. The Sum Insured shall be reinstated only upon the Insured paying the Company the prorata
premium for the unexpired Period of Insurance from the date of such loss to the expiry date of the Policy
for the amount of such loss.
CONDITIONS
1. Articles in Pairs or Sets:
Page 52
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
Where any item insured hereunder consists of articles being a pair or set, the Company‟s liability in
respect of any particular part or parts of such pair or set which may be lost or damaged shall not
exceed either the value of the particular part or parts without reference to any special value which
such article or articles may have as part of such pair or set or the proportionate part of the Sum
Insured of the pair or set.
2. Single Article Limit:
Unless specifically and separately stated, the Company‟s liability in respect of each article or pairs or
sets of articles shall not exceed 5% of the Total Sum Insured under this Policy.
EXCLUSIONS:
This Policy does not cover the following unless specially mentioned in the Schedule and expressly
insured by the Policy:-
1. Breakage, cracking or scratching of crockery, glass, cameras, binoculars, lenses, sculptures, curious,
gramophone records, pictures, musical instruments, sports gear and similar articles of brittle and
fragile nature, unless caused by fire or accident to the means of conveyance.
2. Loss, destruction or damage caused by mechanical or electrical derangement / breakdown of any
article unless caused by external accidental means.
3. Loss, destruction or damage caused by over winding and denting or internal damage of watches and
clocks.
4. Loss of or damage to money, securities, manuscripts, deeds, bonds, bills of exchange, promissory
notes, stock or share certificates, stamps, business books or documents, jewellery, watches, furs,
precious metal, precious stones, gold and silver ornaments, travel tickets, cheques and bank drafts.
5. Loss, destruction or damage caused by or arising from the leakage, spilling or exuding of liquids, oils
or materials of a like nature or articles of dangerous or damaging nature.
6. Theft from any car except car of fully enclosed saloon type having at the time all the doors, windows
and other openings securely locked and properly fastened.
7. Loss destruction or damage to articles which did not form part of the baggage when the travel
commenced unless specifically declared and accepted by the Company.
8. Loss destruction or damage to articles of consumable and perishable nature.
9. Loose articles such as sticks, umbrellas, sun shades, fans, deck chairs, property in use on the voyage
and or journey, or articles whilst being worn on the person or carried about.
Page 53
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
10. Loss or damage to any electrical machine, apparatus, fixtures or fittings (including wireless sets,
radio, television sets and tape recorders) arising from overrunning, excessive pressure, short
circuiting, arcing, heating or leakage of electricity from whatever cause (lightning included).
11. Loss or damage whilst being conveyed by any carrier under contract of affreightment.
SECTION XI – SIGNAGE INSURANCE
COVERAGE:
The Company hereby agrees subject to the terms, conditions and exclusions herein contained or
endorsed or otherwise expressed hereon, to indemnify the Insured for damage to any Signage due to
Fire, Riot and Strike, Theft or Accident, from any fortuitous cause, any time during the Period of this
Insurance and within the limits stated in the Schedule hereto, provided always that the liability of the
Company shall in no case exceed the Sum Insured on each item or on the whole the Total Sum Insured
hereby.
SUM INSURED:
The Sum Insured under the Policy would be fixed on current Market Value basis.
BASIS OF INDEMNITY:
The indemnity in respect of the items covered under this section will be on the Market Value Basis.
In the event of Property insured being damaged by any of the specified perils, the Company shall pay for
the amount of damage or loss or at its option replace or repair the damaged item.
If the item hereby insured shall, at the commencement of any destruction of or damage to the item by
any of the Insured perils be collectively of greater value than the Sum Insured thereon, then the Insured
shall be considered as being his own insurer for the difference and shall bear a rateable proportion of the
loss as Sum Insured bears to such value. Every item, if more than one, of the Policy shall be separately
subject to this Condition.
Upon happening of the damage, the Sum Insured shall stand reduced by the amount of such loss paid by
the Company. The Sum Insured shall be reinstated only upon the Insured paying the Company the prorata
premium for the unexpired Period of Insurance from the date of such loss to the expiry date of the Policy
for the amount of such loss.
EXCLUSIONS:
The Company shall not be liable in respect of:
1. Any loss or damage caused wilfully or knowingly by the Insured, or any loss or damage in which
the Insured or any person acting on his behalf is involved or implicated.
Page 54
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
2. Damage arising from the Signage being worked upon in any manner or during its removal or
replacement or arising out of or in course of alterations to the Premises.
3. Fusing or burning out of any bulb and/or tubes arising from overrunning, overheating, excessive
pressure, short circuiting, arcing, heating or leakage of electricity from whatever cause (lightning
included).
4. If the Insured premises containing the insured Property becomes unoccupied and so remains for
a period of more than 30 days.
5. Any loss or damage due to defective design or workmanship by the manufacturer or supplier.
SECTION XII – DISHONESTY OF EMPLOYEES
COVERAGE:
The Company hereby agrees, subject to the terms, provisos, exclusions, conditions and definitions
contained herein or endorsed or otherwise expressed hereon, to indemnify the Insured against a direct
pecuniary loss sustained by reason of any act of fraud / dishonesty committed by the Employee on or
after the date of commencement of this Policy and during uninterrupted service of the Employee with
the Insured and discovered during the continuance of this Policy or within twelve calendar months of
the expiration thereof and in the case of death, dismissal or retirement of the Employee within twelve
calendar months of such death, dismissal or retirement whichever of these events shall first happen.
PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT
i. The liability of the Company shall not exceed:
(a) in respect of any employee the Sum Insured stated against his name or as declared herein.
(b) in respect of all claims under this Policy, the Total Sum Insured.
ii. If this Policy shall be continued in force for more than one Period of Indemnity or if any liability
shall exist on the part of the Company under this Policy and also under any other Policy in
respect of fraud or dishonesty of the Employee, the liability of the Company hereunder shall not
be accumulated or increased thereby but the aggregate liability of the Company during any
number of Periods of Indemnity and for any number of acts of fraud or dishonesty committed
by the Employee shall not exceed the Sum Insured hereunder or the Sum Insured under any
other such Policy as aforesaid whichever is greater.
iii. The Company shall not be liable to pay more than one claim in respect of the action of any one
Employee.
SUM INSURED:
The Sum Insured under the Policy would be the limit of liability opted by the insured for the Policy
Period.
Page 55
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
BASIS OF INDEMNITY:
If a loss is sustained by the Insured as a result of the fraudulent or dishonest conduct of a named
Employee and/or persons comprising a category of Employees and other employees, then the liability of the
Company shall stand reduced in the same proportion as the number of named Employees and/or
categories of Employees bears to the number of employees involved in causing the said loss.
If a loss is sustained by the Insured as a result of the fraudulent or dishonest conduct of a member or
members of a category of Employees, and the actual number of Employees in such category exceeds the
number of employees noted in the Schedule against such category, then the liability of the Company shall
stand reduced in the same proportion as the number of Employees in such category bears to the actual
number of Employees in such category.
Any monies which, but for the dishonest or fraudulent conduct of the Employee concerned, would have
been payable to such Employee by the Insured and any monies of such Employee with the Insured (or
which may come into the custody, care or control of the Insured) shall be applied by the Insured, to the
extent it is legally entitled to do so, against the amount payable by the Company in diminution or
extinction of any loss.
In no event shall the Company be liable under this Policy for more than the actual cash value of money,
bullion, travelers cheques, negotiable instruments, bearer bonds or coupons, stamps, cheques, bank or
currency notes or similar instruments on the day upon which the loss is discovered.
CONDITIONS:
1. The Company shall not be bound to give notice or be affected by any notice of any trust charge
lien assignment or other dealing with or relating to any contract of Insurance but the receipt of
the Insured or his legal representatives shall in all cases be an effectual discharge to the Company.
2. If required by the Company, the agent of the Insured shall in case of any loss to the Insured be
permitted at all reasonable times to examine into the circumstances of such loss and the Insured
shall on being required so to do by the Company produces all books of accounts, receipts,
documents relating to or containing entries relating to the loss in his possession and furnish
copies of or extracts from such of them as may be required by the Company so far as they relate
to such claims or will in any way enable the Company to ascertain the correctness thereof or the
liability of the Company under this Policy.
3. The Company shall be entitled at its own expenses and for its own benefit, in the name of the
Insured to prosecute all claims and exercise all rights of action competent to the Insured against
the Employee in respect of any act insured against in connection with which it may have made
payment under this Policy and the Insured shall give to the Company all such information and
assistance as may be reasonably required for maintaining such claims or rights.
Page 56
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
4. For the purpose of identifying Employee in all cases of change of residence or occupation or
change of name whether by marriage or otherwise, due notice thereof in writing shall be given by
the Insured to the Company.
5. Any of the circumstances in relation to these conditions coming to the knowledge of any official
of the Company shall not be the notice to or be held to bind or prejudicially affect the Company
notwithstanding subsequent acceptance of any premium.
6. Employees:
No persons other than Employees shall be covered under this Policy unless and until a person‟s
name or category of employees has been notified in writing to the Company, any additional premium
due has been paid and the Company‟s agreement to extend cover has been indicated by it issuing an
endorsement confirming the addition of such employee or category as an Employee.
7. Records to be Maintained:
If any part of the premium or renewal is based on estimates furnished by the Insured, the Insured
shall keep an accurate record containing all relevant particulars and shall allow the Company to
inspect such record. The Insured shall within one month after the expiry of each Period of
Insurance, furnish such information as the Company may require. The premium or renewal
premium shall thereupon be adjusted and the difference paid or allowed to the Insured.
8. Adjustment of Premium:
If so indicated in the Schedule, then during the Policy Period the Insured shall maintain a proper and
contemporaneous record of the actual amount of cash or stock held by Employees, which record
shall be available for inspection by the Company at any reasonable time. Within one month from the
expiry of this Policy the Insured shall provide the Company with a written record of the actual
amount of cash or stock held by Employees during the Policy Period and any information or
supporting documentation in respect thereof that the Company may request. If the amount of cash
or stock held by Employees ascertained after the expiry of this Policy shall differ from the Insured‟s
estimate thereof as stated in the proposal, then (if the actual amount of cash or stock held by
Employees exceeds the Insured‟s estimate of the same) the Insured shall pay to the Company any
additional premium that the Company may determine by reference to the differential, or (if the actual
amount of cash or stock held by Employees is less than the Insured‟s estimate of the same) the
Company will reimburse the Insured by reference to the differential but subject to minimum
retention of premium of 25%.
EXCLUSIONS:
This Policy does not cover the following unless specially mentioned in the Schedule and expressly
insured by the Policy:
1) The Company shall not be liable in respect of losses arising elsewhere than in India.
Page 57
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
2) Any consequential losses of any kind, be they by way of loss of profit, any loss not reflected in the
Insured‟s books of account, loss of opportunity, business interruption, market loss, loss of gain or
potential income or gain which should have accrued to the Insured (including but not limited to
interest and dividends), or otherwise;
3) Any legal liability of any kind;
4) Any fraudulent or dishonest act of an Employee not discovered within 12 months of the date upon
which such Employee ceased to be an employee of the Insured for any reason;
5) Any expenses incurred by the Insured in establishing the existence of or quantification of any fact
or matter giving rise to a Claim under this Policy;
6) Any fact or matter or circumstance of which the Insured was, or ought reasonably to have been,
aware at the commencement of the Policy Period.
7) The Company shall not be liable to make any payment hereunder if the nature of the Business of
the Insured or the duties or conditions of service of any of the Employed shall be changed or the
remuneration of any of the Employed reduced or its basis altered without the sanction of the
Company or if the precautions and checks for securing accuracy of the accounts mentioned in
the said Proposal and correspondence relative thereto shall not be duly observed or if the
Insured shall continue to entrust the Employee with money or goods after having knowledge of
any material fact bearing on the honesty of the Employee.
8) If at the time of any loss arising under this Policy there be any other subsisting guarantee or
security in respect of the acts or defaults of the person or persons Employed the Company shall
not be liable to pay or contribute more than its rateable proportion of such loss.
9) The Company shall not be liable for any unexplained losses or shortages discovered at stock
taking nor any further loss in respect of the Employee concerned upon or after the discovery of a
default committed by such Employee.
SECTION XIII - LEGAL LIABILITY
COVERAGE:
This section will indemnify the Insured against their legal liability (other than under the Public Liability
Insurance Act, 1991 or any other statute based on the doctrine of “No Fault Liability”) to pay
compensation including claimant‟s costs, fees and expenses anywhere in India, in accordance with Indian
Law.
1. INDEMNITY:
The Indemnity only applies to claims arising out of Accidents occurring in the Insured Premises
during the Period of Insurance first made in writing against the Insured during the Policy Period
and the Insured is indemnified for Injury and / or Damage but only against claims arising out of
Page 58
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
or in connection with the business specified in the Schedule and not against claims arising out of
or in connection with:-
(a) Pollution howsoever caused unless specifically covered
(b) Any Product.
For the purpose of determining the indemnity granted
(a) „Injury‟ means death, bodily injury, illness or disease of or to any person,
(b) „Damage‟ means actual and/or physical damage to tangible property;
(c) „Pollution‟ means pollution or contamination of the atmosphere or of any water land or
other tangible property;
(d) „Product‟ means any tangible property after it has left the custody or control of the
Insured, which has been designed, specified, formulated, manufactured, constructed,
installed, sold, supplied, distributed, treated, serviced, altered or repaired by or on behalf
of the Insured but shall not mean food and beverages supplied by or on behalf of the
Insured primarily to the Insured‟s employees as a staff benefit.
(e) „Policy Period‟ means the period commencing from effective date and hour as shown in
the policy schedule and terminating at midnight on the expiry date as shown in the policy
schedule.
(f) „Period of Insurance' means the period commencing from the retroactive date and
terminating on the expiry date as shown in the Policy Schedule.
(g) „Accident‟ means a fortuitous event or circumstance, which is sudden, unexpected and
unintentional including resultant continuous, intermittent or repeated exposure arising
out of the same fortuitous event or circumstance.
(h) „Premises‟ shall be deemed to include pipelines running, outside the premises for
discharge of treated effluents at a disposal point situated within a distance of one
kilometer from the Premises.
(i) Retroactive Date is the date as shown in the schedule against the same item.
2. (a) NOTIFICATION EXTENSION CLAUSE:
Should the Insured notify the Company during the Policy Period in accordance with
General Condition 9.1 of any specific event or circumstance which the Company accepts
may give rise to a claim or claims which form the subject of indemnity by this Policy,
then the acceptance of such notification means that the Company will deal with such
claim or claims as if they had first been made against the Insured during the Policy
Period. The extension under this clause will be subject to the maximum time limit laid
down under the Indian Limitation Act in force from time to time.
Page 59
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
(b) EXTENDED CLAIM REPORTING CLAUSE:
In the event of non-renewal or cancellation of this Policy, either by the Company or by
the Insured, the Company will allow a time limit not exceeding 90 days from the date of
expiry or cancellation of the Policy provided no insurance is in force during this extended
reporting period for the same interest, for notification of claims for accidents which had
taken place during the Period of Insurance but could not be made during the Policy
Period, provided, however, all claims made during the extended reporting period shall be
handled as if they were made on the last day of the expiring Policy Period and are subject
to the limits of indemnity and the terms, conditions and exceptions of the Policy.
3. INDEMNITY TO OTHERS:
The indemnity granted extends to:
3.1 Officials of the Insured in their business capacity arising out of the performance of their
business or in their private capacity arising out of their temporary engagement of the
Insured‟s employees;
3.2 The officers, committees and members of the Insured‟s canteen, social, sports, medical,
fire fighting and welfare organizations in their respective capacities as such;
3.3 The personal representatives of the estate of any person who would otherwise be
indemnified by this Policy but only in respect of liability incurred by such person.
Provided always that all such persons or parties shall observe, fulfill and be subject to the terms,
conditions and exclusions of this Policy as though they were the Insured.
4. CROSS LIABILITIES:
Each person or party indemnified is separately indemnified in respect of claims made against any of
them by any other person or party (other than the named Insured) subject to Company‟s total
liability not exceeding the limits of indemnity stated in the Schedule of the Policy.
5. DEFENCE COSTS:
The Company will pay all costs, fees and expenses incurred with their prior consent in the
investigation, defence or settlement of any claim made against the Insured and the costs of
representation at any inquest, inquiry or other proceedings in respect of matters which have a
direct relevance to any claim made or which might be made against the Insured, provided such
claim or claims are the subject of indemnity by the Policy. Such costs, fees and expenses are
called „Defence Costs‟.
6. INDEMNITY LIMITS:
Company‟s total liability to pay compensation, Claimant‟s costs, fees and expenses and defence
costs shall not exceed the Indemnity limit stated in the schedule. Indemnity limit applies to any
one claim or series of claims arising from one originating cause. Indemnity limit shall represent
the total amount of company‟s liability during the Policy Period.
Page 60
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
7. CLAIMS SERIES CLAUSE
For the purpose of this Policy where a series of and/or several bodily injuries and/or property
damages are attributable directly or indirectly to the same cause all such bodily injuries and/or
property damages shall be added together and all such bodily injuries and/or property damages
shall be treated as one claim and such claim shall be deemed to have been made at the point in
time when the first of the claims was made in writing. There shall, however, be no coverage for
claims made arising from one specific cause, which are made later than 3 years after the first
claim of the series.
8. EXCESS
The Insured shall bear as excess the amount or percentage of the Limit of Indemnity per any one
accident so stipulated in the Schedule attached to the Policy. This excess shall be applicable to
both (a) death/ bodily injury and (b) property damage, inclusive of defence costs arising out of
any one accident. The company‟s liability shall attach for the claim in excess of such Excess.
EXCLUSIONS
This Policy does not cover liability
1. assumed by the Insured by agreement and which would not have attached in the absence of
such agreement.
2. arising out of earthquake, earth-tremor, volcanic eruption, flood, storm, tempest,
typhoon, hurricane, tornado, cyclone or other similar convulsions of nature and atmospheric
disturbance.
3. arising out of deliberate, willful or intentional non-compliance of any statutory provision.
4. arising out of loss of pure financial nature such as loss of goodwill, loss of market, etc.
5. (a) arising out of all personal injuries such as libel, slander, false arrest, wrongful
eviction, wrongful detention, defamation, etc. and mental injury, anguish, or shock resulting
there from;
(b) infringement of plans, copy-right, patent, trade name, trademark, registered design;
6. arising out of fines, penalties, punitive or exemplary damages or any other damages
resulting from the multiplication of compensatory damages.
7. directly or indirectly occasioned by, happening through or in consequence of war,
invasion, act of foreign enemy, hostilities (whether war be declared or not), civil war,
rebellion, revolution, insurrection, terrorism or military or usurped power.
8. directly or indirectly caused by or contributed to by
(a) ionizing radiations or contamination by radioactivity from any nuclear fuel or from any
nuclear waste from the combustion of nuclear fuel;
Page 61
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
(b) the radioactive, toxic, explosive or other hazardous properties of any explosive nuclear
assembly or nuclear component thereof;
9. This Policy does not cover liability for claims arising out of;
the ownership possession or use by or on behalf of the Insured of any motor vehicle or
trailer for which compulsory insurance is required by legislation other than the following;
(a) claims caused by the use of any tool or plant forming part of or attached to or used in
connection with any motor vehicle or trailer;
(b) claims arising beyond the limits of any carriageway or thoroughfare caused by the loading
or unloading of any motor vehicle or trailer;
(c) claims for damage to any bridge, weighbridge, road or anything beneath caused by the
weight of any motor vehicle or trailer or of the load carried therein;
(d) claims arising out of any motor vehicle or trailer temporarily in the Insured‟s custody or
control for the purpose of parking.
10. transportation of materials and / or hazardous / dangerous substances outside
Insured‟s premises unless specifically covered.
11. the ownership possession or use by or on behalf of the Insured of any aircraft,
watercraft or hovercraft.
12. damage to property owned leased or hired or under hire-purchase or on loan to
the Insured or otherwise in the Insured‟s care custody or control other than the
(a) Premises (or the contents thereof) temporarily occupied by the Insured for work thereon
or other property temporarily in the Insured‟s possession for work thereon (but no
indemnity is granted for damage to that part of the property on which the Insured is
working and which arises out of such work).
(b) employees and visitors clothing and personal effects.
(c) Premises tenanted by the Insured to the extent that the Insured would be held legally
liable in the absence of any specific agreement.
13. Injury and/ or Damage occurring prior to the Retroactive Date in the Schedule.
Provided always that in the event of any Injury or Damage arising from continuous or
continual inhalation, ingestion or application of any substance following the covered
accident and where the Insured and Company cannot agree when the Injury or Damage
occurred, then
Page 62
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
(a) Injury shall be deemed to have occurred when the claimant first consulted a qualified
medical practitioner in respect of such Injury;
(b) Damage shall be deemed to have occurred when it first became evident to the claimant
even if the cause was unknown.
14. the deliberate, conscious or intentional disregard of the Insured‟s technical or
administrative management of the need to take all reasonable steps to prevent claims.
15. Injury to any person under the contract of employment or apprenticeship with the
Insured their contractor(s) and/or Sub-Contractor(s) when such Injury arises out of the
execution of such contract.
16. liability more specifically Insured elsewhere.
17. arising out of Accidents occurring outside India.
CONDITIONS
1. The Insured shall give written notice to the Company as soon as reasonably practicable of
any claim made against the Insured (or any specific event or circumstance that may give rise
to a claim being made against the Insured) and which forms the subject of indemnity under
this Policy and shall give all such additional information as the company may require. Every
claim, writ, summons or process and all documents relating to such event shall be forwarded
to the Company immediately they are received by the Insured.
2. No admission, offer, promise or payment shall be made or given by or on behalf of the
Insured without the written consent of the Company.
3. The Company will have the right, but in no case the obligation, to take over and conduct in
the name of the Insured the defence of any claim and will have full discretion in the conduct
of any proceedings and in the settlement of any claim and having taken over the defence of
any claim may relinquish the same. All amounts expended by the company in the defence
settlement or payment of any claim will reduce the limits of indemnity specified in the
Schedule of the Policy.
In the event the Company, in its sole discretion, chooses to exercise its right pursuant to this
condition, no action taken by the Company in the exercise of such right will serve to modify
or expand in any manner, the company‟s liability or obligations under this Policy beyond
what the company‟s liability or obligations would have been had it not exercised its rights
under this condition.
4. The Insured shall give all such information and assistance as the Company may reasonably
require.
5. The Insured shall give notice as soon as reasonably practicable of any fact, event or
circumstance which materially changes the information supplied to the Company at the time
Page 63
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
when this Policy was effective, and the company may amend the terms and conditions of this
Policy according to the materiality of such change.
6. The Company may at any time pay to the Insured in connection with any claim or series of
claims under this Policy to which an Indemnity limit applies the amount of such limit (after
deduction of any sums already paid) or any lesser amount for which such claims can be
settled and upon such payment being made the Company shall relinquish the conduct and
control of and be under no further liability in connection with such claims.
7. The Insured shall keep accurate records of annual turnover which term shall include all
leviable duties and at the time of renewal of Insurances declare such details as the Company
may require. The Company shall at all reasonable time have free access to inspect such
records.
8. If at the time of happening of any event resulting into a liability under this Policy, there be
any other public liability insurance or insurances effected by the Insured or by any other
person covering the same liability, then the Company shall not be liable to pay or contribute
more than its rateable proportion of such liability. This Policy does not cover liability which
at the time of happening of any event resulting into such liability, be Insured by or would, but
for the existence of this Policy, be Insured by, any other Policy (but not a Public Liability
Policy) or Policies, except in respect of any excess beyond the amount which could have been
payable under such Policy / Polices, had this Insurance not been effected.
9. The event of liability arising under the Policy or the payment of claim under the Policy, the
Limit of Indemnity per any one-year under the Policy shall get reduced by the extent of
quantum of liability to be paid or actual payment of such claim. Under no circumstances, it
shall be permissible to reinstate the limit of indemnity to the original level, even on payment
of extra premium.
10. It is also hereby further expressly agreed and declared that if the Company shall disclaim
liability to the Insured for any claim hereunder and such claim shall not within 12 calendar
months from the date of such disclaimer have been made the subject matter of a suit in a
court of law then the claim shall for all purposes be deemed to have been abandoned and
shall not thereafter be recoverable hereunder.
11. The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this Policy in respect of any
claim if such claim shall be in any manner fraudulent or supported by any statement or device
whether by Insured or by any person on behalf of the Insured and/ or if the insurance has
been continued in consequence of any material misstatement or the non-disclosure of any
material information by or on behalf of the Insured.
12. Any dispute concerning the interpretation of the terms, conditions limitations and/ or
exclusions contained herein is understood and agreed to by both the Insured and the
Company to be subject to Indian law. Each party agrees to submit to the jurisdiction of any
court of competent jurisdiction within India and to comply with all requirements necessary to
give such court the jurisdiction. All matters arising hereunder shall be determined in
accordance with the laws of India.
Page 64
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
SECTION XIV - EMPLOYEES‟ COMPENSATION
COVERAGE:
The Company subject to the terms exclusions and conditions contained herein or endorsed hereon, that
if at any time during the Period of Insurance any Employee or Employees of the Insured shall sustain
Injury by accident arising out of and in the course of his employment in the Business, for which the
Insured is liable to pay compensation under any Law(s) specified in the Schedule, then the Company
shall indemnify the Insured upto the Limit of Indemnity against all sums for which the Insured shall be
so liable, including costs and expenses for defending any such claim incurred with the Company‟s
consent.
Provided always that in the event of any change in the Law(s) or the substitution of other legislation
therefor, this Policy shall remain in force but the liability of the Company shall be limited to such sum as
the Company would have been liable to pay if the Law(s) had remained unaltered.
DEFINITION:
Employee or Employees means such person or persons in direct employment under the Insured in the
Business, but shall not include any person employed under a Contractor or Sub-Contractor of the
Insured unless specifically shown as covered in the Schedule and by an endorsement.
INSURABLE VALUE:
Wages i.e. the remuneration payable to an Employee by the Insured for the employment in the Business
and includes any privilege or benefit which is capable of being estimated in money other than a travelling
allowance or the value of any travelling concession or a contribution paid by the employer of an
employee towards any pension or provident fund or a sum paid to an employee to cover any special
expenses entailed on him by the nature of his employment for the Period of Insurance.
LIMIT OF INDEMNITY:
Limit of Indemnity means the maximum amount of indemnity as specified in the Schedule that will be
provided under this Policy by the Company in respect of
a) any particular claim by an Employee and
b) all claims arising out of all accidents for any number of Employees during the Period of
Insurance.
CONDITIONS:
1. Safeguards: The Insured shall take reasonable precautions to prevent accidents and disease and
shall comply with all statutory obligations, manufacturer's recommendations and other safety
regulations in conduct of the Business.
Page 65
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
2. Company‟s Rights After Loss: No admission offer promise or payment shall be made by or on
behalf of the Insured without the consent of the Company which shall be entitled, without being
obliged to do so, if it so desires to take over and conduct in his name the defence or settlement of
any claim or to prosecute in his name for its own benefit any claim for indemnity or damages or
otherwise and shall have full descretion in the conduct of any proceedings and in the settlement of
any claim and the Insured shall give all such information and assistance as the Company may
require.
3. Declaration of Employees and Wages: It is clearly agreed and Understood that the Insured shall
be bound at all times to declare all Employees and Wages payable in respect of such Employees on
the basis of which the Premium for this Policy is calculated.
In case of increase in Employees or Wages subsequent to insurance, Insured shall keep the
Company intimated and obtain endorsement by payment of necessary additional premium.
The Insured shall as and when require by the Company permit inspection of its records to verify the
Wages and Employees and shall also provide duly authenticated copies thereof if so required the
Company.
4. Average: Notwithstanding anything contained hereinabove,
(i) a) If the number of Employees (whether on duty or otherwise) employed by the Insured on the date
of accident is higher than the number covered under this Policy, the Company shall indemnify
Insured‟s liability arising out of such accident, only in such proportion that the number of
Employees covered bears to the Employees found employed on the date of accident.
b) If the amount of Wages declared for this insurance for all Employees is less than the actual Wages
paid until date of accident, the Company shall be liable to indemnify on any claim only in proportion
that the Wages declared bears to the Wages paid. For the purpose of this clause, the Wages declared
shall be calculated proportionately for the period from commencement of Policy until date of
accident for comparison with the actual wages paid during such period to determine applicability of
this clause.
c) If the liability of the Insured for any claim by an Employee is determined on the basis of Wages
higher than covered under this Policy, the Company shall be liable to indemnify only in proportion
that the Wages covered under the Policy for the Employee/Employees bears to the Wages on the
basis of which Insured is held liable. For the purpose of this clause, the Wages covered in respect of
any Employee shall be deemed to be the average wage per Employee in the category under which
the Employee falls as specified in the Schedule, unless actual Wages paid at the time of accident is
substantiated by submission of documentary evidence to the Company.
(ii) If more than one of the above clauses is found applicable in respect of a claim, only such clause
under which the liability of the Company is least shall be applied.
5. Maintenance of record of Employees/Wages: The Insured undertakes to maintain an accurate
record of the Employees and Wages in respect of the Business throughout the Period of Insurance,
Page 66
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
in compliance with all statutory requirements or otherwise, and allow the Company to inspect such
records during or upon expiry of this Policy.
EXCLUSIONS:
This Policy shall not cover liability of the Insured:
a) For Injury caused to Employee by accident directly or indirectly caused by or arising from or in
consequence of or attributable to any act of terrorism regardless of any other cause or event
contributing concurrently or in any other sequence to the loss.
For the purpose of this exclusion, an act of terrorism means an act or series of acts, including
but not limited to the use of force or violence and/or the threat thereof, of any person or
group(s) of persons, whether acting alone or on behalf of or in connection with any
organisation(s) or government(s), or unlawful associations, recognized under Unlawful
Activities (Prevention) Amendment Act, 2008 or any other related and applicable national or
state legislation formulated to combat unlawful and terrorist activities in the nation for the time
being in force, committed for political, religious, ideological or similar purposes including the
intention to influence any government and/or to put the public or any section of the public in
fear for such purposes.
b) Accident occurring at any other place than the Place or Places of Employment specified in the
Schedule, unless the Employee was at such other place whilst on duty for the purpose of the
Business and on the directions of the Insured or any of its official authorized to exercise control
and supervision over the Employee.
c) For Occupational Diseases contracted by an Employee
d) For interest and/or penalty imposed on the Insured under any law or otherwise.
e) Under any Law for medical expenses in connection with treatment of any Injury sustained by
an Employee
f) For persons employed in the Business under a Contractor or Sub-Contractor of the Insured
unless specifically covered in the Schedule
g) For Injury sustained by person whilst in the employ of the Insured otherwise than in the
Business and/or who has is not declared for insurance under this Policy.
h) Assumed by agreement which would not have attached in the absence of such agreement
i) For any sum which the Insured would have been entitled to recover from any party but for an
agreement between the Insured and such party.
j) For any accident occurring whilst the Employee is under the influence of intoxicating liquor or
drugs.
Page 67
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
k) For any incapacity or death of an Employee resulting from his/her deliberate self-injury or the
deliberate aggravation of an accidental Injury.
SECTION XV – TENANT‟S LEGAL LIABILITY
(Applicable only if the Insured is a tenant of the building)
COVERAGE:
Legal liability incurred by the Insured as a Tenant of the premises for loss of or damage to the building/s
by any of causes listed in Section-I under “coverage” other than Act of God Perils (Earthquake,
lightening, subsidence, landslide, rock slide, Storm, Cyclone, Typhoon, Tempest, Hurricane, Tornado,
Flood and Inundation), Riot, Strike and Malicious Damage. This section will also not cover loss or
damage caused by wear, tear, settlement or shrinkage, vermin, insects, fungus, the weather, or anything
which happens gradually; faulty materials, design or workmanship; building work which involves
alterations, renovations, extensions or repairs; or subsidence or heave of the land.
This section covers legal liability only to the extent that the Insured would be held legally liable in the
absence of any specific tenancy agreement.
BASIS OF INDEMNITY:
The limit of liability will be as specified in the Policy Schedule, subject to not more than 10% of the Sum
Insured of the contents insured under Section I herein above, in respect of each occurrence and 25% for
all occurrences during the Policy Period.
SECTION XVI – INLAND TRANSIT
(Inland Transit (Rail or Road))
COVERAGE:
This Policy covers Goods in Inland Transit as per “Inland Transit (Rail or Road) – All Risks basis”,
unless restricted and duly mentioned in the schedule attached to this Policy.
SUM INSURED:
As enumerated against “Sum Insured” in the Policy Schedule.
BASIS OF INDEMNITY:
The limits of liability as agreed between the Insurer and Insured and set out in the Policy Schedule.
CONDITIONS:
1. This Policy is effected to insure the interest specified in the Schedule when dispatched either by or
for account of the Assured in which they have an Insurable Interest.
Page 68
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
It is a condition of the Policy that the Assured are bound to declare hereunder each and every
consignment without exception subject to Clause III below, Company being bound to accept upto but
not exceeding the amount specified in Clause IV below
2. Period of Policy
This Policy shall remain in force for a period of 12 months as set out in the Policy Schedule unless
cancelled previously by either side as per Cancellation clause stated herein or Sum Insured is exhausted
whichever is earlier.
3. Declaration Clause:
The Assured warrants that during the currency of this open Policy they will declare to the Company
within 48 hours from the time the risk attaches or as may be agreed at the time of Policy issuance, each
and every dispatch falling under the scope of the open Policy. Acceptance of any dispatch by the
Company declared after the time limit stipulated in this warranty shall not be taken as a waiver and as a
precedent for future declarations.
4. Valuation Clause
The shipments insured hereunder are to be valued as per the basis of valuation set out in the Policy
Schedule.
5. Limit of Company‟s Liability
Warranted that the limit of the Company‟s liability in respect of any one accident or series of accidents
arising out of the same event shall not exceed the limits stated in the Policy Schedule.
6. Inspection of Records:
The Company and/or its Agents shall have the right, at any time during the business hours of the
Assured to inspect the records of the Assured in respect of dispatches made falling within the terms of
the open Policy.
7. Claims
In the event of loss and / or damage which may give rise to a claim under this insurance, the assured
and / or the claimants shall observe and comply with the claims procedures as per IMPORTANT
NOTICE clause herein attached as a condition precedent to liability
8. Condition Precedent
The due observance and fulfillment of the terms and conditions of this contract in so far as these relate
to anything to be done or complied with by the Assured shall be a condition precedent to the liability of the
Company to make payments hereunder. If there shall be any misstatement in or omissions of a
material fact from the information supplied by the Assured whether by the said proposal and
declaration or otherwise, this Policy shall be null and void and any premium paid thereon shall be
Page 69
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
forfeited. No transfer in the interest in the Policy and no waiver of alterations to or change in the terms
of this Policy shall be valid, unless made in writing and signed by the Company.
9. Deductible/ Franchise / Excess
As mentioned in the Policy Schedule
GENERAL CONDITIONS (Applicable to All Sections, unless specifically enumerated in the
relevant sections):
1. Notices and Alterations to the Policy:
Every notice and communication to the Company required by this Policy shall be in writing and be
addressed to the nearest office of the Company and the acknowledgement of service shall be
obtained from the Company. No receipt for renewal premium is valid except on the official form
issued by the Company and no endorsement on this Policy or alteration in the terms thereof is valid
unless countersigned by an authorized official of the Company or by an agent acting under Power of
Attorney from the Company.
2. Duty of Disclosure:
This Policy shall be void and all premiums paid hereon shall be forfeited to the Company in the
event of misrepresentation, misdescription or non-disclosure of any material fact in the proposal
form, personal statement, declaration and connected documents, or any material information having
been withheld.
3. This Policy and the attached Schedule(s) shall be read together as one contract and words and
expressions to which specific meanings have been attached in any part of this Policy or of the
attached Schedule(s) shall bear the same meaning wherever they may appear.
4. Duties following an Accident –
In the event of any occurrence which might give rise to a claim under this Policy the Insured shall -
a) immediately notify the Company by telephone as well as in writing, giving an indication as to
the nature and extent of loss or damage;
b) take all reasonable steps within his power to minimize the extent of the loss or damage;
c) preserve the damaged or defective parts and make them available for inspection by an
official or surveyor of the Company.
d) furnish all such information and documentary evidence as the Company may require.
Page 70
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
The Company shall not be liable for any loss or damage of which no notice and completed claim
form have been received by the Company within Fourteen days of its occurrence.
The liability of the Company under this Policy in respect of any damage, for which indemnity is
provided, shall cease if the said damaged property and or premises is kept in operation without being
repaired or rectified to the satisfaction of the Company.
5. Obligations of the Insured
a) The Insured shall take all reasonable steps to maintain the insured property in efficient working
order and to ensure that no item is habitually or intentionally over loaded. The Insured shall fully
observe the manufacturer's instructions for operating, inspection and overhaul, as well as
government, statutory municipal and all other binding regulations in force concerning the
operation and maintenance of the insured plant and machinery;
b) The Company‟s Officials shall at all reasonable times have the right to inspect and examine any
property insured hereunder and the Insured shall provide the Officials of the Company with all
details and information necessary for the assessment of the risk. The Company shall provide the
Insured with a copy of the inspecting Official‟s report; which shall however be treated as strictly
confidential both by the Insured and the Company.
c) In the event of any -
i) Material change in the original risk;
ii) Alteration, modification or addition to insured item
iii) Departure from prescribed operating conditions, whereby the risk or loss or damage increases
iv) Changes in the Insured's Interest (such as discontinuation or liquidation of the business or
being placed in receivership) taking place, the Policy shall be void unless its continuance
be agreed by endorsement signed by the Company.
6. Position after a Claim
a) The Insured shall not be entitled to abandon any property whether taken possession of by the
Company or not.
b) As from the day of loss the Sum Insured for the remainder of the Period of Insurance is reduced
by the amount of the compensation. To prevent under insurance during the remainder of the
current Period of Insurance the amount insured must be reinstated. The premium will be
calculated pro-rata from the day repaired item is again put to work. For subsequent Period of
Insurance the original indemnity and premium are again in force unless circumstances justify an
alteration.
Page 71
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
7. Transfer of Interest
The insurance granted by this Policy shall cease to attach to any items described in the Schedule the
interest in which shall pass from the Insured otherwise than by will or operation of law. Unless the
consent of the Company for the continuance of the Insurance shall be obtained and signified by
endorsement hereon.
8. Recourse
The Insured shall at the expense of the Company do and concur in doing and permit to be done all
such acts and things as may be necessary or required by the Company in enforcing any right or
remedies of obtaining relief or indemnity from parties (other than those insured under this Policy)
to which the Company shall be or would become entitled or subrogated upon their paying for or
making goods of any loss damage under this Policy, whether such acts and things shall be or
become necessary or required before or after the Insured's indemnification by the Company.
9. Termination of Insurance:
Under any of the following circumstances the Insurance ceases to attach as regards the property
affected unless the Insured, before the occurrence of any loss or damage, obtains the sanction of the
Company signified by endorsement upon the Policy by or on behalf of the Company :-
a) If the nature of the occupation of or other circumstances affecting the Property insured or
containing the Insured Property be changed in such a way as to increase the risk of loss or
damage by Insured Perils.
b) If the interest in the property passes from the Insured otherwise than by will or operation of law.
10. Reasonable Care:
The Insured shall take all ordinary and reasonable precautions for the safety of the Property insured
against accident, loss or damage.
a. The Insured shall take all reasonable steps to safeguard the contents and the insured premises
against any insured event.
b. Insured shall take all reasonable steps to prevent a claim from arising under this policy.
c. Insured shall ensure that any security system or aid is maintained in accordance with any
maintenance Schedule or recommendations of the manufacturers or if none then as may be
required , and kept in good and effective working condition.
d. When the Insured Premises are left unattended the Insured shall ensure that all means of entry to
or exit from the insured premises have been properly deployed.
11. Mid Term Increase in Sum Insured:
In the event of an increase in the Sum Insured being agreed to, the Company shall charge on such
increased sum an additional provisional premium on a basis proportionate to the unexpired period of
the Policy.
Page 72
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
12. Mid Term Reduction in Sum Insured:
In the event of a decrease in the Sum Insured being agreed to, the Company shall refund premium
on such reduction in Sum Insured. The premium refunded will be Premium collected less premium
chargeable for the expired period on Short period scale. Expired period herein is period from policy
inception date till date of decrease in Sum Insured endorsement. However, no reduction in Sum
Insured shall be allowed for Declaration policies during the currency of the policy.
The Short Period retention scale is as below:
Sl. No Period Rate
1 For a period not exceeding 15 days 10% of Annual Rate
2 ------------------- do -------------------- 1 Month 15% of Annual Rate
3 ------------------- do -------------------- 2 Months 30% of Annual Rate
4 ------------------- do -------------------- 3 Months 40% of Annual Rate
5 ------------------- do -------------------- 4 Months 50% of Annual Rate
6 ------------------- do -------------------- 5 Months 60% of Annual Rate
7 ------------------- do -------------------- 6 Months 70% of Annual Rate
8 ------------------- do -------------------- 7 Months 75% of Annual Rate
9 ------------------- do -------------------- 8 Months 80% of Annual Rate
10 ------------------- do -------------------- 9 Months 85% of Annual Rate
11 For a period exceeding 9 Months Annual Rate
13. Average: The Insurance under this Policy (except sections XIII, XV) is subject to the following
condition of Average.
If the Property insured under this Policy shall at time of loss be collectively of greater value than the
Sum Insured thereon, then Insured will be considered as being his own Insurer for the difference
and shall bear a rateable proportion of loss accordingly. Every item more than one in the Policy, shall
be separately subject to this condition.
14. Contribution:
Page 73
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
If at the time of happening of any loss or damage covered by this Policy there shall be existing any
other Insurance of any nature whatsoever covering the same, whether effected by the Insured or not,
then the Company shall not be liable to pay or contribute more than its rateable proportion of any
loss or damage.
15. Subrogation:
The Insured and any claimant under this Policy shall at the expense of the Company do or concur in
doing or permit to be done all such acts and things that may be necessary or reasonably required by
the Company for the purpose of enforcing any rights and remedies or obtaining relief or indemnity
from other parties to which the Company shall be or would become entitled or subrogated upon the
Company paying for or making good any loss or damage under this Policy whether such acts and
things shall be or become necessary or required before or after the Insured‟s indemnification by the
Company.
16. Fraudulent Claims
If a claim is in any respect fraudulent, or if any false declaration is made or used in support thereof,
or if any fraudulent means or devices are used by the Insured or anyone acting on his behalf to
obtain any benefit under this Policy, or if a claim is made and rejected and no action or suit is
commenced within three months after such rejection or, in case of arbitration taking place as
provided therein, within three months after the Arbitrator or Arbitrators or Umpire have made their
award, all benefit under this Policy shall be forfeited.
17. Cancellation:
The Company may at any time, cancel this Policy or a Section therein in the event of
misrepresentation, mis-description or non-disclosure of any material fact in the proposal form,
personal statement, declaration and connected documents, or any material information having been
withheld, by giving 15 days‟ notice in writing by Regd. A/D. to the Insured at his last known address,
in which case, the Company shall return to the Insured a proportion of the last premium
corresponding to the unexpired Period of Insurance.
The Insured may also give 15 days‟ notice in writing, to the Company, for the cancellation of this
Policy or a section herein, in which case, Company shall retain premium for the period this Policy
has been in force at the Company‟s short period scales, provided no claim has occurred up to the
date of cancellation of this Policy.
Notwithstanding the above, if the policy or a section is cancelled by the Insured after a loss has
occurred, the premium to be retained by the Company shall be the pro-rata proportion of the
premium calculated on the average amount insured upto the date of cancellation plus the pro-rata
proportion of the premium from the date of loss to the expiry of the Period of Insurance on the
amount of loss paid.
18. Arbitration:
Page 74
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
If any dispute or difference shall arise as to the quantum to be paid under this Policy (liability being
otherwise admitted) such difference shall independently of all other questions be referred to the
decision of a sole arbitrator to be appointed in writing by the parties thereto or if they cannot agree
upon a single arbitrator within 30 days of any party invoking arbitration, the same shall be referred to
a panel of three arbitrators, comprising of two arbitrators, one to be appointed by each of the parties
to the dispute/difference and the third arbitrator to be appointed by such two arbitrators and
arbitration shall be conducted under and in accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration and
Conciliation Act, 1996.
It is clearly agreed and understood that no dispute or difference shall be referable to arbitration as
herein before provided, if the Company has disputed or not accepted liability under or in respect of
this Policy.
It is hereby expressly stipulated and declared that it shall be a condition precedent to any right of
action or suit upon this Policy that the award by such arbitrator/ arbitrators of the amount of the
loss or damage shall be first obtained.
It is also hereby expressly agreed and declared that if the Company shall disclaim liability to the
Insured for any claim herein under, and such claim shall not within 12 calendar months from the
date of such disclaimer have been made the subject matter of a suit in a Court of Law, then the
claim shall for all purposes be deemed to have been abandoned and shall not thereafter be
recoverable hereunder.
19. Claims Procedure:
1. On the happening of any loss or damage coming to the notice of the Insured, the Insured shall give
immediate notice thereof to the Company and shall within 15 days after the discovery of the loss or
damage, or such further time as the Company may in writing allow in that behalf, deliver to the
Company
a) A claim in writing for the loss or damage containing as particular an account as may be
reasonably practicable of all the several articles or items or property damaged or destroyed, and
of the amount of the loss or damage thereto respectively, having regard to their value at the time
of the loss or damage not including profit of any kind.
b) Particulars of all other insurances, if any
The Insured shall also at all times at his own expense produce, procure and give to the
Company all such further particulars, plans, specification books, vouchers, invoices, duplicates
or copies thereof, documents, investigation reports (internal/external), proofs and information
with respect to the claim and the origin and cause of the loss and the circumstances under
which the loss or damage occurred, and any matter touching the liability or the amount of the
liability of the Company as may be reasonably required by or on behalf of the Company
together with a declaration on oath or in other legal form of the truth of the claim and of any
matters connected therewith.
Page 75
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
No claim under this Policy shall be payable unless the terms of this condition have been
complied with to the satisfaction of the Company.
2. In no case whatsoever shall the Company be liable for any loss or damage after the expiration of
12 months from the happening of the loss or damage unless the claim is the subject of pending
action or arbitration; it being expressly agreed and declared that if the Company shall disclaim
liability for any claim hereunder and such claim shall not within 12 calendar months from the
date of the disclaimer have been made the subject matter of a suit in a court of law then the claim
shall for all purposes be deemed to have been abandoned and shall not thereafter be recoverable
hereunder.
20. Prosecution:
The Insured upon becoming aware of any loss or damage in respect of which a claim is or may be
made shall take all practicable steps to discover the person by whom the property was stolen or the
premises damaged and to prosecute and obtain the conviction of such person for the offence and to
trace and recover any property stolen.
21. Statutory Compliance:
The Insured shall comply with all statutory and other regulations.
The Insured shall observe all manufacturers‟ instructions concerning:
(a) The inspection of machinery, plant, equipment and apparatus,
(b) The safety of persons or property.
22. Renewal Notice:
The Company shall neither be bound to issue any renewal notice nor to accept renewal premium
thereunder. Unless renewed as herein provided, this Policy shall terminate at the expiration of the
period for which the premium has been paid.
23. Geographical Scope:
The geographical scope of this Policy will be India unless the Policy has been specifically extended
for worldwide coverage in which case the claims shall be settled in India in Indian rupees. The laws
of India shall govern the provisions of this Policy for the time being in force. The parties hereto
unconditionally submit to the jurisdiction of the courts in India.
24. Observance of Terms and Conditions:
The due observance and fulfilment of the terms, provisions and conditions of an endorsement on this
Policy by the Insured insofar as they relate to anything to be done or complied with by the Insured and
the truth of the statements and answers in the said Proposal and declaration shall be conditions
precedent to any liability of the Company to make any payment under this Policy. If there shall be any
mis-statement in or omissions of a material fact from the information supplied by the Insured whether
by the said Proposal and declaration or otherwise, this Policy shall be null and void and any premium
Page 76
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
paid thereon shall be forfeited. No transfer in the interest in this Policy and no waiver of alterations to
or change in the terms of this Policy shall be valid unless made in writing and signed by the Company.
25. Jurisdiction:
This Policy shall be governed by the laws of India and is subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the
courts of India.
26. Loss Minimisation Expenses:
Subject otherwise to the terms, limits, exclusions, provisions and conditions contained in the Policy
and in consideration of the payment by the Insured to the Company of additional premium as stated
in the Schedule, the insurance hereby extends to indemnify the Insured, expenses for loss
minimisation necessarily incurred by the Insured to prevent any aggravation of an Insured Loss
following a loss or damage at any Insured‟s Premises specified in the Schedule.
27. Claim Settlement:
The company will settle the claim under this Policy within 30 days from the date of receipt of necessary
documents required for assessing the claim. In the event that the Company decides to reject a claim
made under this Policy, the Company shall do so within a period of thirty days of the final survey /
investigation report in accordance with the provisions of Protection of Policyholders‟ Interest
Regulations 2002.
28. Onus of Proof:
In any action, suit or other proceedings where Insurer alleges that by reason of the above provisions
any loss or damage is not covered by this Insurance, the burden of proving that such loss or damage
is covered shall be upon Insured.
29. The Policy and the Schedule shall be read together as one contract and any word or expression to
which a specific meaning has been attached in any part of this Policy or the Schedule shall bear such
specific meaning wherever it may appear. The terms, conditions and exclusions of this Policy (and
any phrase or word contained therein) shall be interpreted in accordance with Indian Law.
30. Grievances:
In case the Insured is aggrieved in any way, the Insured may contact Insurer at the specified address,
during normal business hours. In case the Insured/Insured Person has not got his/her grievances
redressed by the Company within 15 days, then he/she may approach the Insurance Ombudsman for
the redressal of the same. A list containing the addressees of Offices of Ombudsman is attached to
this Policy. Policy holder may also obtain copy of IRDA circular number IRDAI/Reg/8/145/2017
notification on Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (Protection of policy holders‟
interests) Regulations, 2017
Page 77
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
GENERAL EXCLUSIONS (Applicable to All Sections):
This Policy does not cover –
1. The amount of the Excess specified in the Schedule ascertained after the application of all other
terms and conditions of this Policy including any condition of average (under-insurance).
2. Damage caused by any process of cleaning, dyeing or bleaching, restoring, repairing or
renovation or deterioration arising from wear and tear, moth, vermin, insects or mildew or any other
gradually operating cause.
3. Any loss or damage arising through delay, detention or confiscation by Customs or other
authorities.
4. Loss or damage which either in origin or extent or directly or indirectly proximately or remotely,
occasioned by or contributed to by, arise out of or in connection with war, invasion, act of foreign
enemy, hostilities or warlike operations (whether war be declared or not), mutiny, riot, civil
commotion, insurrection, rebellion, revolution, conspiracy, military naval or usurped power, martial
law seizure, capture, confiscation, arrests, restraints and detainment by order of any Government or
any other Authority or state of siege or any of the events or causes which determine the proclamation
or maintenance of martial law or state of siege.
Any loss or damage happening during the existence of abnormal conditions (whether physical or
otherwise), directly or indirectly, proximately or remotely, occasioned by or contributed to by or
arising out of or in connection with any of the said occurrences shall be deemed to be loss or damage
which is not covered by this insurance, except to the extent that the Insured shall prove that such loss
or damage happened independently of the existence of such abnormal conditions.
5. i) Any loss, destruction or damage to any property whatsoever or any loss or expense whatsoever,
resulting or arising therefrom or any consequential loss and any legal liability of whatsoever
nature, directly or indirectly, caused by or contributed to by, or arising from ionising radiation or
contamination by radioactivity from any source whatsoever.
ii) Any loss, destruction, damage or legal liability directly or indirectly caused by or contributed to by
or arising from Nuclear Weapons Material.
6. Loss or damage caused by wear and tear or gradual deterioration and gradual developing flaws.
7. Loss, destruction or damage directly or indirectly caused to the property insured by
a) ionising radiations or contamination by radioactivity from any nuclear fuel or from any
nuclear waste from the combustion of nuclear fuel
b) the radioactive toxic, explosive or other hazardous properties of any explosive nuclear
assembly or nuclear component thereof
8. Loss, destruction or damage caused to the Property insured by pollution or contamination excluding
Page 78
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
a) pollution or contamination which itself results from a peril hereby insured against.
b) any peril hereby insured against which itself results from pollution or contamination
9. Loss damage or consequential loss directly or indirectly caused by, consisting of, or arising from:
a) any functioning or malfunctioning of the internet or similar facility, or of any intranet or private
network or similar facility,
b) any corruption, destruction, distortion, erasure or other loss or damage to data, software, or and
kind of programming or instruction set.
c) loss of use or functionality whether partial or entire of data, coding, program, software, any
computer or computer system or other device dependent upon any microchip or embedded
logic, and any ensuing liability or failure of the Insured to conduct business.
10. Consequential loss or legal liability of any kind except for coverage opted by the Insured and granted
by the company under section II, XIII, XIV hereinabove.
11. Permanent or temporary dispossession resulting from confiscation, commandeering or requisition
by any lawfully constituted authority.
12. Unexplained losses, shortages due to error or omissions, losses discovered when making an inventory
or a periodic stock taking or loss resulting from the Insured's voluntarily parting with title or
possession of any property or induced to do so by deception.
13. Terrorism Damage Exclusion Warranty:
This Policy excludes loss, damage, cost or expense of whatsoever nature directly or indirectly caused
by, resulting from or in connection with any act of terrorism regardless of any other cause or event
contributing concurrently or in any other sequence to the loss.
For the purpose of this exclusion, an act of terrorism means an act or series of acts, including but
not limited to the use of force or violence and/or the threat thereof, of any person or group(s) of
persons, whether acting alone or on behalf of or in connection with any organisation(s) or
government(s), or unlawful associations, recognized under Unlawful Activities (Prevention)
Amendment Act, 2008 or any other related and applicable national or state legislation formulated to
combat unlawful and terrorist activities in the nation for the time being in force, committed for
political, religious, ideological or similar purposes including the intention to influence any
government and/or to put the public or any section of the public in fear for such purposes.
This exclusion also includes loss, damage, cost or expense of whatsoever nature directly or indirectly
caused by, resulting from or in connection with any action taken in controlling, preventing,
suppressing or in any way relating to the above.
This exclusion is not applicable to Section XVI i. e. Marine Inland transit.
Page 79
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
Grievance Redressal Procedure
If You have a grievance about any matter relating to the Policy, or Our decision on any matter, or the claim, You
can address Your grievance as follows:
1. Our Grievance Redressal Officer
You can send Your grievance in writing by post or email to Our Grievance Redressal Officer at the
following address:
Grievance Redressal Office
Liberty General Insurance Limited
10th Floor, Tower A, Peninsula Business Park,
Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai 400 013
Email us at: gro@libertyinsurance.in
2. Consumer Affairs Department of IRDAI
a. In case it is not resolved within 15 days or if You are unhappy with the resolution You can approach
the Grievance Redressal Cell of the Consumer Affairs Department of IRDAI by calling Toll Free
Number 155255 (or) 1800 4254 732 or sending an e-mail to complaints@irdai.gov.in. You can also
make use of IRDAI's online portal - Integrated Grievance Management System (IGMS) by
registering Your complaint at igms.irda.gov.in.
b. You can send a letter to IRDAI with Your complaint on a Complaint Registration Form available by
clicking here. You must fill and send the Complaint Registration Form along with any documents by
post or courier to General Manager, Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India
(IRDAI), Consumer Affairs Department - Grievance Redressal Cell, Sy.No.115/1, Financial District,
Nanakramguda, Gachibowli, Hyderabad- 500032.
c. You can visit the portal http://www.policyholder.gov.in for more details.
3. Insurance Ombudsman
You can approach the Insurance Ombudsman depending on the nature of grievance and financial
implication, if any. Information about Insurance Ombudsmen, their jurisdiction and powers is available on
the website of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) at www.irdai.gov.in,
or of the General Insurance Council at www.generalinsurancecouncil.org.in, the Consumer Education
Website of the IRDAI at http://www.policyholder.gov.in, or from any of Our Offices.
The contact details of the Insurance Ombudsman offices are as below-
Areas of Jurisdiction Office of the Insurance Ombudsman
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, JeevanPrakash
Gujarat , UT of Dadra and Nagar
Building, 6th floor,
Haveli, Daman and Diu
TilakMarg, Relief Road,
Ahmedabad – 380 001.
Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06
Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@ecoi.co.in
Page 80
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Karnataka
JeevanSoudhaBuilding,PID No. 57-27-N-19, Ground
Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road,JP Nagar, Ist Phase,
Bengaluru – 560 078.
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@ecoi.co.in
Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, JanakVihar
Complex, 2nd Floor,
6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office, Near
New Market,
Bhopal – 462 003.
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202
Fax: 0755 - 2769203
Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@ecoi.co.in
Odisha Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
62, Forest park,
Bhubneshwar – 751 009.
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455
Fax: 0674 - 2596429
Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@ecoi.co.in
Punjab , Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jammu and Kashmir, UT of S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor, Batra
Chandigarh Building, Sector 17 – D, Chandigarh –
160 017.
Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468
Fax: 0172 - 2708274
Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@ecoi.co.in
Tamil Nadu, UT–Pondicherry Town Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Fatima
and Karaikal (which are part of UT of Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453, Anna Salai,
Pondicherry) Teynampet,
CHENNAI – 600 018.
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284
Fax: 044 - 24333664
Email: bimalokpal.chennai@ecoi.co.in
Delhi Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 2/2
A, Universal Insurance Building, Asaf Ali
Road, New Delhi –
110 002.
Tel.: 011 - 23232481/23213504
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@ecoi.co.in
Assam , Meghalaya, Manipur, Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor,
Nagaland and Tripura Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road, Guwahati
– 781001(ASSAM).
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205
Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@ecoi.co.in
Page 81
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and UT Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
of Yanam – a part of the UT of 6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court",
Pondicherry Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace,
A. C. Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool,
Hyderabad - 500 004.
Tel.: 040 - 67504123 / 23312122
Fax: 040 - 23376599
Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@ecoi.co.in
Rajasthan Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor,
Bhawani Singh Marg,
Jaipur - 302 005.
Tel.: 0141 - 2740363
Email: Bimalokpal.jaipur@ecoi.co.in
Kerala , UT of (a) Lakshadweep, (b) Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Mahe – a part of UT of Pondicherry 2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg.,
Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M. G. Road, Ernakulam-682015.
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759/2359338
Fax: 0484-2359336
Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@ecoi.co.in
West Bengal, UT of Andaman and Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Nicobar Islands, Sikkim Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor,
4, C.R. Avenue,
KOLKATA - 700 072.
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340
Fax : 033 - 22124341
Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@ecoi.co.in
Districts of Uttar Pradesh : Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Laitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, Hamirpur, 6th Floor, JeevanBhawan, Phase-II, Nawal
Banda, Chitrakoot, Allahabad, Kishore Road, Hazratganj,
Mirzapur, Sonbhabdra, Fatehpur, Lucknow - 226 001.
Pratapgarh, Jaunpur,Varanasi, Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331
Gazipur, Jalaun, Kanpur, Lucknow, Fax: 0522 - 2231310
Unnao, Sitapur, Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@ecoi.co.in
Barabanki, Raebareli, Sravasti, Gonda,
Faizabad, Amethi, Kaushambi,
Balrampur, Basti, Ambedkarnagar,
Sultanpur,
Maharajgang, Santkabirnagar,
Azamgarh, Kushinagar, Gorkhpur,
Deoria, Mau, Ghazipur, Chandauli,
Ballia, Sidharathnagar.
Page 82
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
Goa, Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Mumbai Metropolitan Region 3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe,
excluding Navi Mumbai & Thane S. V. Road, Santacruz (W),
Mumbai - 400 054.
Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960
Fax: 022 - 26106052
Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@ecoi.co.in
State of Uttaranchal and the Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
following Districts of Uttar Pradesh: Bhagwan Sahai Palace
Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly, Bijnor, 4th Floor, Main Road,
Budaun, Bulandshehar, Etah, Kanooj, Naya Bans, Sector 15,
Mainpuri, Mathura, Meerut, Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar,
Moradabad, U.P-201301.
Muzaffarnagar, Oraiyya, Pilibhit, Tel.: 0120-2514250 / 2514252 / 2514253
Etawah, Farrukhabad, Firozbad, Email: bimalokpal.noida@ecoi.co.in
Gautambodhanagar, Ghaziabad,
Hardoi, Shahjahanpur, Hapur, Shamli,
Rampur, Kashganj, Sambhal,
Amroha, Hathras,
Kanshiramnagar, Saharanpur.
Bihar, Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jharkhand. 1st Floor,Kalpana Arcade Building,, Bazar
Samiti Road,
Bahadurpur,
Patna 800 006.
Tel.: 0612-2680952
Email: bimalokpal.patna@ecoi.co.in
Maharashtra, Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Area of Navi Mumbai and Thane Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor,
excluding Mumbai Metropolitan C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198,
Region N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan Peth,
Pune – 411 030.
Tel.: 020-41312555
Email: bimalokpal.pune@ecoi.co.in
Clause L: Information about Us
Liberty General Insurance Limited
Address: 10th Floor, Tower A, Peninsula Business Park, Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai –
400013
Website: https://www.libertyinsurance.in/
E-mail: care@libertyinsurance.in
Customer Service: care@libertyinsurance.in /18002665844
Page 83
LIBERTY GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Business Package Insurance Policy UIN: IRDAN150RP0003V02201314
INSURANCE IS THE SUBJECT MATTER OF THE SOLICITATION
Page 84
